Mapping the Journey:
Understanding the Role of Habitus and
Capitals in Chinese International
Students' Cultural Fit

By GWLS2

A Dissertation
submitted to University College London

Institute of Education

Department of Education, Practice and Society

For BA Education Studies

May 2024

1

Contents
Acknowledgements ··········································································································· 3
Abstract ···························································································································· 4
1 Introduction ··················································································································· 5
2 Literature Review ··········································································································· 8
2.1 Empirical Context ··············································································································· 8
2.2 Theoretical Framework ···································································································· 10

3 Research Questions ·······································································································16
4 Methodology ·················································································································17
4.1 Research Design ················································································································ 17
4.2 Sampling and Participants ································································································ 17
4.3 Data Collection·················································································································· 18
4.4 Data Analysis ···················································································································· 19
4.5 Ethics ································································································································ 20

5 Findings and Discussions ·····························································································21
5.1 Adaptive Habitus and Adaptability as a Habitus······························································ 21
5.2 Consistent Access to Useful Information ·········································································· 28

6 Conclusion ····················································································································40
7 Reference List ···············································································································42
8 Appendix·······················································································································52

2

Acknowledgements

Thankfully,
The Shelter of Education Studies Gifts Me Chance to Believe.
Thankfully,
the Realm of Social Science Affords Aspiration Space to Breathe.

3

Abstract

This article explores the cultural fit challenges Chinese international undergraduate students
from middle-class families in Shanghai face as they transition into Western academic
environments. These students are often from resource-rich families and have a parallel
experience with international education from an early age. Employing Pierre Bourdieu's
theoretical frameworks of capital and habitus, this study presents how habitus and
informational capital contribute to achieving cultural fit. Through in-depth interviews with
eight Chinese students, the research reveals that students who achieve better fit-in usually
have greater adaptability and the ability to maximize existing resources and strengths in
forming sustainable information-gathering methods in a new environment.

4

1 Introduction

According to UNESCO's 2019 report, 145,779 Chinese students were pursuing secondary and
higher education in the UK, accounting for 24% of the total international student population.
Between 2010 and 2017, the number of Chinese students in the UK grew at an average annual
rate of 9% (UK Council for International Student Affairs, 2017). Students who study abroad
often come from families with substantial resources and privileges (Zhang and Tang, 2021),
enabling them to be geographically mobile. However, such high levels of mobility often come
with feelings of unease and the "hidden injuries" of being caught between two worlds, as
described by Sennett and Cobb (1972). Numerous studies have confirmed that international
students, lacking the benefits of years of gradual socialization available to most indigenous
members of the host culture, see the advantages of citizenship in their home countries replaced
by a new minority status (Brown, 2007; Newsome & Cooper, 2016). Scholars have also
identified and explained obstacles in the transition experience, such as language barriers,
interpersonal problems, homesickness, and cultural shock (Newsome and Cooper, 2016; Sovic,
2009; Yu & Moskal, 2018).

Recognizing international students' complex and intersectional diversity (Ovie & Barrantes,
2019), this article mainly focuses on the cohort of undergraduates from Shanghai, China. As
articulated by Zhang and Tang (2021), these undergraduates who can afford years of
international tuition fees typically hail from upper-and middle-class families that avail them
of rich cultural and educational resources along with the privilege of early exposure to
international education. By focusing on this relatively advantaged group among Chinese
international students, this essay accentuates the role of exclusive educational resources and
5

avoids generalizing international students as one homogenized group. These resources
include linguistic competence, proactive opportunity-seeking skills, rapid cultural adaptation,
and networking skills, all of which assume critical significance in transnational educational
settings (Munk, 2009).

Shanghai, as the financial hub in the global sphere and a culturally rich city (Long Finance,
2020; Shanghai Municipal Statistics Bureau, 2020), magnified the privilege of these students.
Besides, with plenty of international schools and quite a hefty and diverse expatriate
community culture, this city enables youth to have a global lens and, accordingly, have many
considerable advantages abroad. Such resources and opportunities allow them to be valued as
international-minded individuals in a globalizing world (Cebolla-Boado et al., 2018).

This study focuses on students of a privileged cohort within the general international student
community—both because of their socio-economic status and cultural background. The latter
aspect becomes especially pertinent in diversified educational settings like the one at
University College London (UCL), known for its outstanding diversity and high proportion
of international students. These privileged backgrounds provide a rich data source for
research exploring the more profound issues Chinese international students face with cultural
fit in the UK.

To investigate the impact of exclusive information that is usually accessible to a selected
segment of the population, this study delves into the experiences of "first-in-family" (FiF)
university students, defined as those who are the first person coming to the UK to pursue
undergraduate education (Spiegler & Bednarek, 2013). The absence of prior family experience
in higher education and limited access to informational capital led to significant obstacles
during their study abroad, entailing a complex process marked by substantial emotional and
6

social adjustments (Lessky, Nairz‐Wirth, & Feldmann, 2021; O'Shea, 2019). This investigation
seeks to illuminate the challenges encountered by students handling physical and cultural
frontiers, devoid of direct guidance or institutional "insider" knowledge from close family
members (Crozier et al., 2008).

This research involved interviews with eight Chinese international students about their
undergraduate experiences at a university in the UK. Following a wealth of literature in the
discourse of international education, this essay employs a Bourdieu-inspired analytical
framework. By utilizing the derived concepts of informational capital and cleft habitus, this
study qualitatively investigates the transition experiences of international students,
emphasising cultural integration and the influence of privilege. These concepts are typically
employed to discuss working-class students' internal struggles and practical transformations
within elite educational environments (Ivemark & Ambrose, 2023). Elite education is tailored
for a small, influential segment of the population (Doughty, 2020), with privileged families
often opting for selective, exclusive educational paths that mirror social origins (Sullivan et al.,
2016; Grodsky, 2007). This education fosters skill development, attaining prestigious degrees,
and building essential networks like the "old school tie" (Sullivan et al., 2016, p.29). These
factors help students maintain higher status positions in elite universities and professions,
ultimately reproducing social status (Shen, 2023). In the context of international students,
internal struggles also exist since they encounter significant cultural disparities.

7

2 Literature Review

This section starts by reviewing relevant literature on the study abroad experiences of
Chinese international students. Acknowledging the impact of elite education, this study
involves the concepts from Pierre Bourdieu's seminal works as the theoretical framework.
Bourdieu's insights contribute significantly to analyzing and comprehending how education
persistently contributes to the reproduction of social status (Lamont & Lareau, 1988).

2.1 Empirical Context

"Cultural fit" is an inseparable topic in the discourse of overseas study (e.g., Newsome and
Cooper, 2016). As habitus adapts to social spaces or applies to the new cultural environment,
a "cultural fit" may occur, explaining the mechanisms of social reproduction within the fields
where habitus operates (Bourdieu, 1990b; Bourdieu & Passeron, 1977). The sense of
dislocation that arises when individuals face unfamiliar cultures and struggle to adapt to new
social contexts can be termed cultural shock (Newsome & Cooper, 2016). People sometimes
withdraw from these environments, a response described by Friebertshäuser (1992) as "fleeing
from the field". For international students, particularly Chinese students in the UK, the
significant cultural disparities between China and the UK may lead to substantial cultural shock
(Zhang, 2023).

Many scholars have noted that for international students, studying abroad is pursuing
experiences in the host country rather than abandoning the old culture (Newsome & Cooper,
2016). However, maintaining cultural heritage and exposure to new cultures in new settings
8

could happen simultaneously. In this context, seeking broader interactions with the host society
may promote the establishment of intercultural contact (Yu & Moskal, 2018). Building social
networks in university significantly enhances students' educational experiences and learning
outcomes. According to Cassidy (2004), these networks often evolve into a vital source of
social support, supplanting family and previous friendships and fostering a strong sense of
community and belonging among students.

Similarly, research by Ramsay, Jones, and Barker (2006) highlights that, particularly for firstyear studying abroad students, friends become the primary source of emotional, practical, and
social support and an essential source of information. When interaction occurs between
individuals from different cultures, it not only enhances the overall educational experience
(Dunne, 2013) but also increases developmental possibilities for students (Gurin et al., 2002).
This interaction establishes a cyclical relationship where motivated and capable students gain
more opportunities, which fosters confidence for further explorations.

Peer relationships generally "provide stability and a secure source of information about
studying and the university" (Lessky, Nairz‐Wirth & Feldmann, 2021, p.35). For international
students, belonging to the vast community of international students can be significantly
supportive when they first arrive (Zhang, 2023). Students from the same country tend to bond
more tightly when abroad. However, the inability to move out of the comfort zones may deprive
the preconditions for developing cross-cultural social networks that facilitate cultural fit (Yu
& Moskal, 2018). According to Spencer-Oatey et al. (2017), while 92% of students reported
satisfactory interactions with fellow compatriots, these figures dropped to 60% and 78% for
interactions with host country nationals and people from other countries, respectively.

9

Establishing cross-cultural friendships faces additional challenges due to differences in
language, culture, values, interests, and plans (Zhang, 2023), which are thought to be
interrelated with well-being as they interact within an ecosystem (Elliot, Reid & Baumfield,
2015). A significant number of students are dissatisfied with being unable to integrate and
having to meet their social and adaptation needs through compatriot communities (Chen &
Ross, 2015). Their attitudes towards the "Chinese circle," a result of racial clustering, are
ambivalent; they appreciate the comfort it provides yet lament its restriction on forming crosscultural friendships (Holliman et al., 2023). On the contrary, some scholars find that students
view their social relations holistically, assessing whether social networks' overall quantity and
quality provide adequate support (Zhang, 2023). Hence, they don't mind if they make local
friends or not.

Extensive literature emphasizes the importance of English language proficiency for
international students' academic success and social adjustment (Andrade, 2006; Sherry,
Thomas & Chui, 2010). Although many students pass language exams, they often struggle with
effective communication, leading to loneliness, anxiety, and reduced confidence, particularly
in conversations with native speakers (Kim, 2020; Sovic, 2009). Additionally, the speech style
of middle-class students tends to receive more social approval, posing a further challenge for
international students whose test preparation does not typically include these skills (Aries &
Seider, 2005).

2.2 Theoretical Framework

Discussions deploying concepts in Bourdieu's work (1977) typically proceed with the
understanding that entering any social field requires adherence to its specific regulative
10

principles, often referred to as the "rules of the game" (Edgerton & Roberts, 2014)—this
study mainly draws on the notions of informational capital and cleft habitus.

2.2.1 Capitals and Informational Capitals

In Bourdieu's conceptual framework (1984, 1986), three forms of capital are crucial in
determining one's position within the social structure. Firstly, economic capital is directly and
immediately convertible into money and is seen as a primary goal within societal structures
(Bourdieu, 1986; O'Shea & Richardson, 1987). Secondly, social capital, deeply rooted in
relationships and encompasses valuable assets acquired through institutionalized relationships
characterized by stability and predictability, facilitates reciprocity among network members
(Field, 2016; Oyefuga and Shakeshaft, 2021). As these relationships are instrumental for
individuals in gathering information, this social capital is crucial for providing an insightful
perspective (Munk, 2009; Santos and Costa, 2015). Finally, cultural capital is associated with
privileged habitus and dispositions (Ostrower, 1998; Reay, 2017). Within the discourse of
education, elite education is generally regarded as a stepping-stone to acquiring cultural capital,
which aims at achieving social advancement or perpetuating social reproduction (Ponzini,
2020). It encapsulates competencies and immaterial knowledge, such as linguistic abilities,
appropriate attire, behaviour in specific circumstances, and strategies to procure job
opportunities (Aries & Seider, 2005). Besides, Bourdieu extensively discussed symbolic
capital, a significant source of power and social prestige (Ponzini, 2020), where "becoming
international" exemplified a highly coveted form of symbolic capital (Basaran & Olsson, 2017).
Yosso (2005) extended Bourdieu's limited categorization of capital in the discourse of broader
social equity, advocating for a more comprehensive framework particularly relevant to the
intercultural situation of underrepresented populations in a particular context (Nuñez, 2009).
11

When discussing social capital's impact on academic achievement, Oyefuga and Shakeshaft
(2021, p.165) further broadened the definition of capital, suggesting it encompasses "anything
and everything."

Amidst these theoretical developments, informational capital was introduced, recognized by
scholars like Edgerton and Roberts (2014) and Munk (2009) for its ability to morph into
economic and social capital while signalling social positioning by encompassing aspects of
cultural and symbolic capital (Edgerton & Roberts, 2014; Munk, 2009). In the educational
sector, this form of capital provides information about the "rules of the game" in educational
institutions, such as available learning opportunities (Santos and Costa, 2015). Munk (2009)
perceived informational capital as academic capital that is essential for building knowledge
about educational and career options and aiding exploration in educational systems and
professional organizations (St, Hu and Fisher, 2010). In elite institutions, vital information not
readily available through official channels, alongside many practical details, is divided into
"practical knowledge of study-related processes"' and "understanding and anticipation of studyrelated logistics" (Lessky, Nairz‐Wirth and Feldmann, 2021, p.29). The former includes
exclusive information from peer networks, while the latter comprises a broader range of
knowledge essential for understanding the system and finding one's path upon entering
university. According to Lareau and Horvat (1999), the value of capital is dependent upon the
social setting in which an individual is situated. However, as Winkler and Sriram (2015) argued,
this elite's mechanism globally rewards privileged communities. Even though the setting may
vary, the value is universally built upon the norms belonging to the dominant group in the
global society, who are always valued and rewarded (Stanton-Salazar, 1997).

In the international student discourse, Spencer-Oatey et al. (2017) have demonstrated that
increased social networking accompanies more interaction with local students and staff.
12

Eventually, this will result in a favourable outcome for the overall cultural fit. Facing cultural
shock, the decision of international students to withdraw or actively achieve better fit-in
largely depends on their ability to establish relationships with key figures in the new
environment and to obtain critical institutional resources and opportunities (Stanton-Salazar,
1997). Building on Stanton-Salazar's (1997) observation that norms associated with the
dominant social group are globally recognized and rewarded, Winkler and Sriram (2015)
highlight the presence of a universal mechanism within global higher education systems. This
mechanism systematically perpetuates elites' advantages by institutionally favouring the
activation of social and cultural capital, which is held mainly by privileged groups. In
essence, students with informational capital not only acquire exclusive information about the
shared mechanism but also recognize that information's value lies in how its owner utilizes it
(Gigler, 2011) and the means to gather it. In other words, they possess a habitus that allows
their capital and mobility to flow together (Sassen, 2019). This study employs informational
capital as a theoretical framework to illustrate the "rules of the game" when studying abroad.

2.2.2 Habitus and Cleft Habitus

The concepts of habitus and cleft habitus are employed to explore the internal conflict that
international student encounter due to the differences between their pre-transition and posttransition environments. Habitus is a set of durable and transposable dispositions that
individuals acquire through family upbringing and their position in the social structure
(Bourdieu, 2002; Edgerton and Roberts, 2014). It acts as an internalized interpretive framework,
often referred to by Bourdieu as “socialized subjectivity,” which shapes how individuals
perceive the social world and their prospects within it. As a schema or a structure of perception,
conception and action, habitus is deeply rooted in one's socialization within the family
13

(Bourdieu, 2002). Thereby, habitus internalizes owners' social position into tastes and
worldviews and affects their position in society (Lee & Kramer, 2012). It is important to note
that while habitus is enduring, it is also susceptible to change as a fluid disposition (Edgerton
& Roberts, 2014). Although associated with the societal class position, habitus is fluid and
adaptable, continuously reinforcing or transforming in response to new experiences (Bourdieu,
1977, 1990a; Lamont & Lareau, 1988). In the context of higher education, Lee and Kramer
(2012) reaffirmed habitus' capacity to evolve in response to novel contexts and individual
experiences during university.

When individuals experience an internal conflict because their ingrained behaviours and
thoughts no longer align with their society, their habitus may alter. The notion of cleft habitus
is frequently employed to elucidate the topic of social mobility (Ivemark & Ambrose, 2023;
Ingram & Abrahams, 2015; Martin & Harrison, 2022). It is commonly exemplified by workingclass students' elite university experience when facing inherent clashes (Lubrano, 2005).
Holding two habitus simultaneously typifies cleft habitus (Bourdieu, 2006, 2008). Ivemark and
Ambrose's (2023) empirical research highlights subjects acquiring new dispositions while
being continuously structured by inherited dispositions, leading to intense internal conflicts
and self-reflection. International students' entry into new environments frequently results in
dissatisfaction and maladjustment with its "rules of the game," which continues to manifest
complex internal struggles, showing the occurrence of cleft habitus.

However, the experience of cleft habitus might also foster new capital and habitus for
international students. "Becoming international" is regarded by Basaran and Olsson (2017) as
a symbolic capital. Students accustomed to navigating unfamiliar "rules of the game" possess
adaptability as a form of cultural capital (Lareau & Weininger, 2003), benefiting students from
a more flexible capital structure (Edgerton & Roberts, 2014). In this case, "becoming
14

international" is not only a mode of thinking that integrates transnational in-between positions
(Wang, 2022) but also a habitus. This habitus enables international students to recontextualize
their capitals and foster a dynamic interplay in their unique fluid situations (Hannerz, 1990;
Peng, 2015). Considering Wang’s (2022) call for education policymakers to wisely recognize
the powerful force behind international students' transnational intermediary identities, it is
essential to acknowledge both dimensions— "becoming international" as both an identity
naturally acquired after studying abroad and as a habitus cultivated during the experience.

Chinese international students are becoming an increasingly significant group in Western
universities, and their situation is garnering growing attention. Ongoing discussions iterate
various factors such as racism, feelings of hostility and alienation, environments with a high
density of international students, inherent cultural differences, and preconceptions about
student life abroad (Holliman et al., 2023; Newsome and Cooper, 2016; Peacock & Harrison,
2008). Extensive studies highlight the specificity, complexity, and diversity of international
students' cultural fit situations (Yu and Moskal, 2018). However, as Newsome and Cooper
(2016) suggested, we need to understand the role of structural impacts in educational discourse
and avoid an overly narrow focus on specific characteristics or concerns like language or social
life. With the notion of "the rules of the game," this study explores how the interplay of pretransition habitus and informational capital guides individuals in understanding, interpreting,
and applying the rules to their post-transition setting.

15

3 Research Questions

RQ1: How do Chinese international students achieve a cultural fit when they come to study in
the UK?

RQ2: What roles do habitus and informational capital play in achieving cultural fit for Chinese
international students?

16

4 Methodology

4.1 Research Design

This qualitative investigation follows the constructivist paradigm. Since the goal was to gain
an in-depth understanding of Chinese students’ cross-cultural experiences (Bhattacharya,
2017), I decided to use a qualitative method to learn the subjective realm of meaning-making,
aiming to demonstrate the deeper reasons behind the phenomena (Cheek & Schutt, 2012). I
embraced the perspective that human behaviour and action are rooted in the meanings
individuals ascribe to people and things and how these meanings are interpreted and conveyed
through language (Charmaz, 2019). This epistemological view, advocating that knowledge and
meaning emerge from the interplay of experiences and ideas, especially in the discourse of
educational research, theory, and policy (Duffy, 2006), suits the exploratory nature of the
research (Bogdan & Biklen, 1998). My study builds on the Bourdieusian tradition, in which
theory-building and empirical research are seen not as separate endeavours but interconnected
processes (Lessky, Nairz‐Wirth and Feldmann, 2021). Overall, the personal experiences
narrated by different participants and the various perceptions that arise during the transition
process can be assembled like a puzzle, allowing me as a researcher to interpret or discover the
notion of a shared reality (Charmaz, 2019) of individuals within this context.

4.2 Sampling and Participants

17

The eight participants were recruited through a non-probability and snowball sampling within
UCL (for more details, see Table 1). Based on my understanding of the people around me, such
an approach could quickly help me filter out individuals who simultaneously meet three criteria:
having been educated in Shanghai before coming to London, studying for an undergraduate
degree at UCL, and having core family members who have not received higher education in
the UK.

Table 1 Participant Profile

4.3 Data Collection

The interview was chosen to capture the evolving social experiences of students, leveraging
the qualitative analysis's potential for generating new theories and unexpected findings (Yin,
2016). Existing studies exploring international students' cultural and social experiences usually
adopt interviews (e.g. Newsome and Cooper, 2016; Wang, 2022; Zhang, 2023). Semistructured interview, as a common data collection technique in qualitative studies, offer
flexibility through follow-up questions (DiCicco-Bloom & Crabtree, 2006; Kallio et al., 2016).
This method allows questions to be adapted based on participant responses and provides space
18

for participants to express themselves (Cohen & Crabtree, 2006). As Sovic (2009) notes,
meaningful understanding of a specific group's perspectives requires recognizing the different
characteristics exhibited by individuals.

I posted a brief description of my research on social platforms. After casually chatting with
interested individuals, I selected eight participants. Given the differences in their educational
background details, it is very likely to offer rich and varied insights into the study, thus
enhancing the informational richness of the discussion (Creswell, 2013). Before the interviews,
I sent an information sheet and an ethics form to the participant via email, where I also inquired
about their preferred language for expressing thoughts. All but one respondent, who identified
English as her first language, chose Mandarin for the interviews. Conducting interviews in their
first language enhanced the accuracy of oral expression and fostered greater trust. An interview
guide (see Appendix 4) covering key research topics, developed based on preliminary research
in the field (Taylor, 2005; Wengraf, 2001), directed the discussions.

I conducted eight semi-structured interviews between March 11 and March 23, 2024, each
lasting 30 to 45 minutes. I utilized Zoom as the interview platform to increase efficiency. The
interviews were recorded, transcriptions were made using Zoom's transcription feature for
English and Xunfei software for Mandarin, facilitating analysis (Cohen & Crabtree, 2006).
Transcriptions were completed within six hours post-interview, with Mandarin transcripts
roughly translated into English via DeepL, followed by manual verification and my
adjustments for accuracy.

4.4 Data Analysis

19

In line with a constructivist paradigm, this study used Braun and Clarke's (2006) thematic
analysis to examine interview data, involving six steps: familiarization with the data,
generating initial codes, searching for themes, reviewing themes, defining and renaming
themes, and producing the report. This comprehensive process, which incorporates both a
priori and posterior coding, systematically categorizes themes into broader themes while
offering flexibility, making it suitable for small-scale qualitative research (Braun & Clarke,
2006, 2012). Thematic analysis was selected for its effectiveness in exploring participants'
perceptions and identifying commonalities in their responses (Ryan & Bernard, 2003). This
iterative process of synthesizing codes into themes could have continued indefinitely. This
method ensures a balanced analysis, capturing both anticipated insights from established
theoretical contexts and novel, unforeseen themes. It leverages the strengths of semistructured interviews to provide a comprehensive understanding of the data.

4.5 Ethics

While conducting this empirical research with human participants, I will adhere to the
guidelines provided by The British Educational Research Association (2018) to mitigate harm
and safeguard the well-being of the participants. Before participation, participants are fully
apprised of the study's aims, benefits, potential risks, their right to withdraw and data protection
measures through the information sheet provided. The consent form ensures voluntariness, full
disclosure, and willingness to include their experiences and insights in this study. During and
after participation, stringent measures will be taken to protect the personal information of
participants. The data collected will be treated as pseudonyms in the essay to protect
participants' privacy and prevent any potential breaches of confidentiality. Data will be
securely stored in a laptop with a password, accessible only to myself, and handled following
data protection regulations, ensuring its use is confined strictly to the research. Maintaining
20

transparency during the research process ensures that participants and the public are informed
about the study's outcomes.

5 Findings and Discussions

This study aims to identify the reasons for Chinese international students' better or less cultural
fit-in. Specifically, it examines how pre-transition habitus and capital are associated with their
post-transition fit-in choices. Empirical evidence indicates that students engage in local culture
to varying extents. In general, the results of their cultural fit—whether to integrate or to
withdraw—are associated with their pre-transition inherent capital and habitus. The research
indicates students who further adapt and better fit-in tend to have better adaptability and are
more capable of gathering valuable information.

5.1 Adaptive Habitus and Adaptability as a Habitus

Many Chinese international students had prepared extensively in pre-transition. They meet
people who will also live in the UK beforehand or learn about their new environment. More
indicative of the globally shared elite's mechanism is the adaptive habitus they developed
since childhood and keep applicable after the transition. Almost all international
undergraduates in this research had envisioned their educational paths to some extent since
they were young and did international courses at least during their high school period. In
21

other words, they are prepared to "become international." Thus, they arrive in the UK with
capitals and habitus applicable there.

On the other hand, those students without assistance at their fingertips had to be active in
gathering and filtering information, reinforcing their habitus parallel to changing situations
since the undergraduate application. Upon arrival, because studying in the UK was not
mainstream in their original environments, they lacked the ready-made contacts or
institutional knowledge that other students might possess. However, as the saying goes,
teaching a man to fish is more beneficial than giving him a fish. Interviews with participants
uncovered that, for some of them, their habitus is adaptable, while for others, adaptivity had
become a part of their habitus through previous experience. The following sections
distinguish the differences.

5.1.1 Behind the Choice of Adaption or Withdrawal

Overall, the study found that the achievement of cultural fit among international students
largely depends on their choices when confronted with a sense of cultural dislocation. Many
external factors, such as timely help, can influence this process. One interviewee, Stephanie,
described it as "organically happening." The substantial empirical evidence shows that
different reactions to cleft habitus, when international students' ingrained behaviours and
thoughts no longer align with their settings, lead to different integration outcomes. Their
reactions and actions closely relate to the habitus formed before studying abroad. As
Newsome and Cooper (2016) highlighted, students' responses to cultural shock vary. Some
develop a deeper self-awareness and appreciation for different cultures, while others may
withdraw from exposure to conflicting beliefs and avoid interaction with the broader society.
22

International students often struggle to form meaningful interactions with local culture due to
cultural and linguistic barriers, as shown by Scanlon, Rowling, and Weber (2007). Significant
cultural differences intensify psychological tension and affective turmoil during social
interactions, leading many students to retreat (Friedman, 2016; Ivemark and Ambrose, 2023),
using shyness as an excuse (Sovic, 2009). At first, students who intend to integrate into the
community may tentatively attribute their challenges to personal ignorance. Over time, they
recognize the external barriers, such as existing social circles among domestic students, deter
deeper integration. Two of the participants, Wenyi and Mengke, originally had the ambitions
to meet local friends and integrate into a broader community:

Group work with local students taught me that overcoming cultural differences
requires substantial effort. Considering my eventual return to China, full integration
seems unnecessary. (Wenyi)

Similarly, Mengke claimed how her established "social bubble" dragged her into a comfort
zone and ultimately gave up further attempts.

Describing the Chinese student community as closed and segregated is overly simplistic (Chen
and Ross, 2015). Among my participants, there are individuals who actively assimilate into the
UK environment, achieving better cultural fit. O'Shea (2019) describes these obstacles with the
metaphor of "traversable boundaries," suggesting that while barriers imply rigid,
insurmountable blocks, boundaries are traversable and potentially meant to be crossed (Tsui &
Law, 2007). Some participants have used their "self-in-between mobility" (Wang, 2022) to
seize opportunities to "learn about other people's thoughts" (Spencer-Oatey et al., 2017).

23

According to responses from participants, as "straddlers" of "epistemic privilege", they are
recalibrating actions flexibly across different educational and social contexts (O'Shea, 2019).
This habitus allows transnational communication and connections, underscoring the intrinsic
value of maintaining multiple cultural affiliations (Lubrano, 2004; Kim, 2010). As Xiao said,
although he "lives here in a Chinese way," he enjoys learning about different cultures from
foreign friends. He is open to trying new things that are impressive and rewarding, such as
consumption habits, including second-hand stores and Black Friday. Narratives from the
interviews with better fit-in students affirm O'Shea (2019) of students' self-imposed need to be
willing to re-negotiate their awareness and position during the transition. In the context of
globalization, the habitus of being "organic, intrinsic, implicit, and reflexive" (Lehmann, 2013)
valued by society is particularly rewarding for international students. Surprisingly, some
participants demonstrated through their responses that as one dimension of "becoming
international", this habitus have been developed before their transition through their pretransition education.

5.1.2

Transfer with Adaptive Habitus

As articulated by Edgerton and Roberts (2014, p.199), habitus is "adaptive" and
"incrementally modifiable in the face of variant circumstances". Swidler (1986) employs the
metaphor of a "tool kit" to describe habitus and show how an individual's social position
profoundly influences the cultural practices, habits, and skills used to address the challenges.
Based on the findings of this study, this toolkit seems to have the potential to move with its
owner and continue to be effective in new environments. In other words, its applicability in
new settings depends on how relevant it remains when its owner is in the new settings.
Following this, the relevance not only determines the toolkit's applicability but also mirrors
24

the relevance between two habitus occurring simultaneously, a phenomenon Bourdieu (2006,
2008) identifies as leading to the emergence of cleft habitus.

Students view the degree of adaptation to academic life as a fundamental aspect of their
overall adaptation to the university experience. Obviously, their prior academic preparations
have significantly aided their transition. The significance of studying independently and the
awareness to adapt based on personal circumstances in university are well-recognized by
participants, with many of them developing independent study habits and adaptability during
high school. Yiwen reflected, "I'd say what I learnt in high school was probably self-study."
Similarly, Haocheng noted, "…more resources are available through UCL's online platform,"
exactly fit the self-study habits he cultivated in high school.

Information collection and collation is a habitus that continues benefiting students. More than
one participant mentioned using customizable comparative tables. They usually developed
this skill during high school for university application. It is still helpful in module selections
or internship applications now. Tracing back, Yutong attributes this habitus of systematically
organizing information to an internship she undertook during her high school years. "That's
when I learned how to utilize this Excel, even though I used to be overwhelmed by such data
processing software before," she recounts. Broadly speaking, this underscores the educational
value of integrating practical, real-world experiences into learning. It is a hallmark of elite
education that constantly prepares students for academic and workplace challenges to
maintain their socio-economic status.

Xiao and Mengke did not initially attend A-level schools; they managed through traditional
public schools' intense, exam-focused environment. Experience in these top-tier public
schools significantly endowed them with certain capabilities that have proven advantageous
25

in their UK studies. To illustrate, Xiao discussed how he learned the importance of mastering
topics through extensive practice. Likewise, Mengke emphasized how handling both A-level
and Gaokao exams simultaneously equipped her to manage multiple tasks calmly and
efficiently in university. These pre-transition preparations are not merely an embodiment of
the elite class's ability to afford costly international education but rather an expected outcome
of elite education in a broad sense.
5.1.3 Adaptability as a Rewarding Habitus

Adaptative habitus indicates the existence of the elites' mechanism that rewards privileged
communities in the global wide. However, relying solely on established habitus to adapt to
new environments often proves insufficient. Challenges such as unforeseen cultural
differences, unexpected cultural shocks, or a lack of sufficient capital and experience in the
UK can lead to a cleft habitus, which limits opportunities (Lee and Kramer, 2012). In
response, there are some students who engage in continual self-reflection, reevaluating their
dispositions and transforming challenges into opportunities for better cultural and academic
integration (Ivemark and Ambrose, 2023). This "internal 'tug' between contradictory
schemes" is reminiscent of Ingram's (2018, p.954) observations of working-class students in
elite education negotiating dual cultural expectations where "conflicting dispositions
awkwardly intermingle."

The inherent adaptivity of habitus bestows a strong inertia, which sometimes makes it
challenging for individuals to adapt to fields that deviate from their initial conditioning
(Bourdieu & Wacquant, 2001). Overcoming this inertia demands open-mindedness to change
and the emotional capacity to stomach the upheavals of the new settings.

26

In high school, people came to you. However, in university, you need to reach out
continually. I don't want to limit my experiences, so I shift towards more engaged and
autonomous approaches. (Yifan)

This rapid assimilation of new habitus or, in other words, modification of their habitus aligns
with the new "rules of the game" in new settings, highlighting adaptability as an essential
competence after the transition.

Haocheng points out the cognitive adaptation needed when confronting deeply ingrained
cultural practices, such as deferring exams with illness—a practice often seen as a lack of
perseverance in Chinese culture. Some students become aware of their cognitive limitations
and incorporate beneficial habits or mindsets observed in the new environment, and
importantly, they make changes based on this awareness. Yifan initially perceived the
strategic utilization of rules as deceptive but soon recognized the importance of actively
understanding and capitalizing on these available opportunities. Her internal struggles
exemplify cleft habitus; her shift from passive compliance to proactive engagement
exemplifies the evolution of her habitus to align more closely with the new demands.

Adaptability as habitus often comes from sensitive observation of circumstances, conjoined
with constant reflection, and changes are made based on awareness. This habitus can also be
backtracked to the experiences before coming to the UK. Yifan's school was an elite one
renowned in China as a "cradle for cultivating foreign language diplomatic talents." With a
strong emphasis on English proficiency and open-minded ethos, she described the school's
educational approach as "enlightenment-oriented". Probably influenced by that, she reflected
constantly on diverse topics, such as her social privileges and how to utilize them positively.
Unlike most undergraduates, Haocheng, who had never participated in A-level examinations,
27

had a tumultuous educational journey. After attending one of Shanghai's top public high
schools, he was enrolled on a premier university in China, but he took a gap year to set up his
own business. Later, he dropped out and joined a foundation course at UCL. "I prepared
nothing when I first came to the UK, but I believed I was prepared since I am very
adaptable", confessed Haocheng. Immersed in a multicultural environment and more diverse
formative experiences engage more in constant self-reflection as a more classified
mechanism, assisting them to transcend traditional geographical boundaries and dynamically
shape their identities (Marginson, 2014; Rizvi, 2011; Gill, 2010; Wang, 2020). Through
persistent reflection and modification, they interact broadly with the host society and
spontaneously establish intercultural contact, as described by Yu & Moskal(2018).

5.2 Consistent Access to Useful Information

Lareau and Horvat (1999) observed that the value of capital varies across different social
settings, indicating that informational capital may dilute during transnational transitions. This
section discusses the factors that influence international students' information gathering and
application, focusing on four key dimensions: language, existing social networks, social skills,
and the quality of information.

5.2.1 Language as the Foundation

One interesting observation is that although most undergraduates are not hindered seriously
by their English proficiency, there remains a considerable gap between basic language skills
and the ability to build and keep relationships and access exclusive information without
28

language barriers. Particularly for these undergraduates who study abroad, most of them have
been intensely exposed to the English environment and international education. Mengke, for
example, developed her English skills robustly in both public schools and A-level courses,
boosting her confidence in communicating with peers and instructors. Although these
students rarely suffer from severe language impairment, there are still challenges due to
incomplete mastery, occasionally leading to troubles. For instance, Yiwen recalled, "I
misunderstood the title of a business analysis module. I expected it to be data analysis in
statistics, but it actually often involves writing analytical reports, which I hate."

Wenyi pointed out that language exam preparation is insufficient for addressing real-world
problems. As she shared, "this helplessness was maximized when infected with flu. I was too
sick to figure out how to see a doctor or what medicine to take." Likewise, even though
informal conversations might be manageable for Yutong, she feels depressed by the shark
disparity in language depth compared to native speakers. Differently, schooling in a
predominantly native English-speaking environment seems to facilitate deeper integration for
Stephanie. Her native-level English has significantly facilitated her deeper integration into the
local environment and make native British friends. In that case, Stephanie not only "felt very
comfortable going to them and asking personal stuff," but the insights provided by her British
friends were generally unavailable to the Chinese student community. For example, unlike
Wenyi, when Stephanie experiences a flare-up of her skin condition, she can apply the
healthcare tips she had learned through casual conversations in daily interactions with the
locals.

The multi-layered experience of Yifan further shows how differences in language skills
influence adaptation. Initially lacking confidence in English, she hesitated to try new things.

29

Every year, returning to the UK after leaving the English environment for the summer
feels like I'm estranged from English… I'd listen to podcasts to get back into it. After
reacclimating to English, I'd start going out to watch plays, visit exhibitions, and
participate in volunteering. (Yifan)

Hence, it could conceivably be suggested that, as a condition to get into the community, once
language is not a limitation to explore, international students would utilize it as a tool to get
more information.

5.2.2 Existing Social Network as the First-aid Station

For some Chinese undergraduates in this study, their social networks shift with their
transition, while others rely on proactively developing new connections and gaining access to
rich and reliable information. If informational capital is considered the "rules of the game,"
then pre-college experiences involve forming specific preliminary alliances and cooperation
with fellow players before the game starts. Terenzini et al. (1994, p.65) view pre-college
friends as a transitional bridge during the initial weeks or months of college, connecting one
academic and interpersonal environment to another. As students' social networks expand and
they forge closer relationships with new acquaintances, the significance of high school
friendships gradually wanes (Terenzini et al., 1994). However, the findings of this study
suggest that for Chinese international students, these pre-college friends continue to provide
solid support and crucial information amidst life's uncertainties (Ramsay, Jones & Barker,
2006). Within the first three months of arriving in London, Yiwen felt anxious and insecure,
during which time she found hanging out with her high school friends sufficiently met her
social needs. Echoed with Yutong's experience that even though she now spends more time
with coursemates, high school friends remain her most supportive network.
30

Due to these students' preparations for becoming international before going abroad, which
included getting to know peers with similar future pathways, the endurance of pre-college
social networks is ensured. The A-level requirements of universities force students and their
families to prepare and make decisions in advance. Xiao, for example, transferred from a
public school to an A-level school, where he was one of 600 graduates that year. Enrolling in
this school means giving up higher education in China and aiming for a UK university. These
shared educational paths facilitate connections with peers who have similar academic plans.
Alongside him, 79 of his peers, including seven pursuing the same major, came to UCL the
same year. Before university, Xiao and his classmates, who also enrolled at UCL, reviewed
numerous websites to familiarize themselves with university policies. This preparation helps
bridge potential information gaps among them. Since these networks were formed with the
expectation of following similar developmental paths, their networks naturally retain as they
continue to live in the same environment and support each other through daily challenges.
These continuously applicable networks in an overseas environment "improve coping
capacities and minimize the risk of misinformation and miscommunication" (Tasic & Amir,
2016, p. 4).

Social networks serve as primary sources of information about academic requirements and
university life and play a vital role in moderating the transition. For example, London's high
living costs normally unsettle international students (Brown & Holloway, 2008). However,
forewarnings from a high school upperclassman who had arrived in the UK earlier helped
Wenyi prepare mentally:

31

Of course, it is still expensive, but the tip prepared me mentally. I lowered
expectations about London in advance and was even ready for possible accidents.
(Wenyi)

Insights from seniors in the high school community equipped not only international students
in daily life but also provided real-life experience of study in UK universities, preventing
academic frustration.
Before my application, he (an upperclassman) described the academic stress of my
program as almost 1.5 times that of others. Being aware of the high-intensity nature of
it meant a calmer acceptance of limited opportunities for activities. (Xiao)

Beyond individual social networks, the family continues to exert an evident influence, just as
Xiao still relies on his parents' resources when seeking internship and research opportunities.
Comparably, Yutong's parents use their social networks to assist her in gathering information
and making informed decisions. It illustrates that although social networks built after
transition might somewhat replace family (Cassidy, 2004), informational capital provided by
family of origin remains irreplaceable (Oyefuga and Shakeshaft, 2021).

Moreover, as the participants said, the pattern of seeking information, such as consulting with
upperclassmen, largely persists upon arrival in the UK. Younger students valued the seasoned
perspectives of their seniors. In particular, some participants noted that transition mentors
assigned by the school provided considerable help in comprehending their new environment.
As mentioned in the literature review, belonging to the international student community and
sharing special bonds with people from the same background provide them considerable
support. In various national and institutional contexts, the Chinese Students and Scholars
Association (CSSA) plays a similar role as "peer-mentoring and the sharing of academic
32

information" (Chen and Ross, 2015, p.165). As a CSSA member, Yifan has formed many
friends there. On the other hand, for Wenyi, CSSA's social media account provides a lot of
reliable information. These responses confirm Chen and Ross's (2015) finding that the social
frameworks established by pioneers with similar backgrounds, such as existing societies and
clubs, have either enhanced or sustained the social status of Chinese students abroad.

5.2.3 Social Skills as the Supply Depot

In the absence of pre-existing social networks, some students manage to forge new
connections through their social skills. With these skills, some of them achieve even better
cultural integration. Graduates from Yifan's high school typically pursue their university
studies in China or the US. To everyone's surprise, she settled for an off-the-wall option—
that of the UK— whose situation knew almost nobody before arrival. Despite that, her active
involvement in various societies and constant interaction with new people since high school
made her adaptation to this new environment more manageable. "I've met and built
relationships one by one here," she said, expressing high satisfaction with her success in
building a supportive network since arrival.

Furthermore, Yifan said that running a choir she founded herself boosts her confidence. With
the choir's success, Yifan felt determined to do whatever she wanted—working part-time in a
restaurant, volunteering in school, and private tutoring. All these tryouts significantly
enriched her experiences and formed a positive cycle.

While participants realized that geographical relocations might weaken social networks, and
existing relationships might hinder deeper cultural integration—making individuals "reluctant
33

to step out and make new friends," as Mengke pointed out—social skills cultivated in one's
original setting do not become obsolete when changing environments. Instead, they act as
reliable and immediately applicable assets in new contexts. Empirical evidence illustrates that
social networks result from and constitute readily available capital, whereas social skills are a
form of yielding habitus, fostering adaptability. "There were ten people in the group, but only
I met him in the end. He ranked the hardest courses each year for me. He told me how
projects should be done as well," mentioned Xiao, indicating the formation of social
relationships is significantly influenced by chance and initiative. Activeness as a social habit
provides individuals with deeper connections and more extensive information.

In addition, for international students, not being confined by their customary social habits is
beneficial. Lessky, Nairz‐Wirth, and Feldmann (2021) noted that educational settings like
seminars or group assignments offer substantial opportunities for forming friendships.
According to participants, many international students find these academic settings ideals for
forming connections as they continue the social practices they used to engage in during high
school. Yifan, for example, met her closest friends while discussing gender issues during a
group assignment in a feminism module. "We share gender-related discussions in our group
chat now. I feel very comfortable to chat about these sensitive issues with them," she shared.
Mengke echoed a similar sentiment:

I met people mainly through interactions in the classroom and within my major. It is a
social science; we have many opportunities to share our thoughts in class. This
communication helps us get to know our classmates better. And it provides the chance
to hang out with people who match with you. (Mengke)

34

Interestingly, the situation varies significantly across disciplines. In contrast to Mengke's
major in social science, Yiwen, studying Mathematics and Statistics, characterizes her major
as highly competitive, where everyone operates independently. The exam ranking system and
job-oriented nature contribute to this individualistic environment.

It's mainly about relying on oneself, which feels more trustworthy. What classmates
say also needs time to check, sometimes not meeting expectations, so it's better to
depend on oneself. (Yiwen)
This difference is consistent with Lessky, Nairz‐Wirth, and Feldmann's (2021) observation
that depending on the circumstances, some students may find it more challenging to foster
mutual support and sustain relationships, relying instead on working on their own.

Few students from the schools attended by Stephanie and Haocheng pursued higher education
in the UK. There background was such that both of them rarely encountered peers applying to
UK universities. Stephanie, raised in Shanghai at an international school exclusively for
foreign nationals and operated by the US Embassy, found herself in a more globally oriented
and informationally-rich environment than typical A-level course schools. However, "most
people preferred going to or returning to the U.S. where they felt more comfortable," the
school's consultants provided limited insights into UK universities and lacked robust alumni
networks. With this situation, Stephanie took the initiative; after reading an interview with a
girl from another international school on a social media platform who had applied to a UK
law program, she reached out to arrange a coffee meeting. This interaction significantly
influenced her choices in applying for undergraduate programs.

At the beginning of his first school term, Haocheng used his coding skills to access learning
resources. Sharing precious resources with classmates to build initial connections is one
35

strategy he took to expand his social network. Unsatisfied with his first dorm, where most
residents were Chinese, and everyone was too content in their comfort zones, merely
engrossed in card games, he moved into an international dorm. There, he immersed himself
in a mix of cultures, a strategic move aimed at broadening his social interactions and seizing
new opportunities. Additionally, Haocheng's initiative also brought academic gains. For
example, he bravely travelled to Cambridge with comprehensive materials to persuade a
professor to admit him into a desired research group. Both Stephanie and Haocheng
demonstrated proactivity, a critical social skill, which enabled them to expand their networks
and gather helpful information after transitioning. Notably, they both exhibited the courage to
step out of their comfort zones. Their confidence and initiative, quintessential traits fostered
by elite education (Meiklejohn, Hickey, and Riddle, 2023), are the reasons they continually
seize opportunities, striving for success that, in turn, leads to even more cultural fit
opportunities.

5.2.4 Quality of the Information as the Watershed

The effectiveness of information is primarily determined by its relevance to individuals, not
merely by its abundance. Aligning with the previously discussed concept of information
capital, the value of information lies in its applicability and potential conversion into
beneficial capital rather than its sheer volume. A key strategy that enables individuals to
utilize rules effectively, rather than being constrained by them, is the careful selection and
discerning filtration of information. Haocheng noted the importance of maintaining a
"dynamic balance" with information and rules: "It's not about rigidly adhering to the rules nor
expending all efforts on exploiting the hidden rules." Similarly, Yifan pointed out her
selective engagement with available resources:
36

I don't make much use of the career centre because I prioritize my campus life. This
decision is a trade-off, saving me time for what I value more. (Yifan)

By determining whether the information is usable for oneself, these students strategically
select, integrate, and apply it to their educational pathways, internships, and other
achievements. Informational capital thus represents the "rules of the game," necessitating that
players not only know the game but also understand the correct strategies for engagement.

When students face challenges accessing information, they often turn to external aids, with
hiring consultants as a straightforward solution. Yutong remarks, "Almost everyone uses offcampus consultants." For these students, the cost of consulting fees is secondary to the ease
of obtaining information. However, this immediate approach can lead to overlooked
information reliability and appropriateness evaluations. Wenyi highlighted a more significant
concern, "I consulted an external advisor who thought I'd suit Education Studies, but she
didn't know me, nor did I know Education Studies." Moreover, as Mengke described, some
consultants, despite their supposed expertise in overseas education, have no experience with
studying abroad. Hence, they can't provide targeted advice.

Therefore, more important than easily accessible information is the ability to judiciously
evaluate it. Students should prioritize directness and reliability, such as seeking firsthand
information from official sources. These capabilities and judgments are rooted in strategically
using capital and adapting tactics to unfamiliar academic fields. This awareness, described by
Sullivan et al. (2016) as a vital skill for maintaining one's position in higher social echelons,
can fall under the globally recognized and rewarded mechanisms identified by Winkler and
Sriram (2015).

37

From high school, Haocheng recognised the value of firsthand information in navigating
unfamiliar environments. Due to internet regulations in China, he learned to use a Virtual
Private Network to access Western universities' official websites years ago when applying for
a summer camp. He was the sole participant who did not hire off-campus consultants in
application. This manner of acquiring information while simultaneously being judgmental
allowed him to "apply to undergraduate programs with minimal detours." This practice has
evolved, enabling him to excel through information advantages over other students. In
university, the occasion to make informed decisions based on the reliability and relevance of
information became more common. Just as Stephanie prefers to gather insights from senior
students about course details not listed on official sites: "This information is hard to seek but
is crucial."

Stephanie's keenness for information was shaped by her regrettable decision three years ago.
Born in Hong Kong—a former British colony—she believed that studying in the UK would
better align with her career prospects, particularly because of the similarities in the judicial
systems. Reflecting on her choice of study location, she admits, "But that was not the case."
She now regrets basing her decision solely on imagination and a consultant's advice without
adequate career planning or seeking opinions from experienced law practitioners. This
mentality she shares underscores the importance of informational capital in understanding the
hidden mechanisms of the system, as highlighted by Santos and Costa (2015), who give the
example of how hierarchies differentiate degrees in terms of academic quality, social
prestige, and value.

Unlike some students equipped with ready-to-use resources and skills, Stephanie's education
emphasized empowering students to dynamically adapt and develop their capabilities to
secure resources. Engaging in numerous trials when the cost of error was relatively low
38

provided her with experiences and insights that later heightened her sensitivity to
information. Now, she employs more varied methods to gather and verify information,
explaining, "Through internships and discussions with legal professionals at different stages,
I realized..." Likewise, Haocheng's independence from his parents' intervention, supported by
ample resources, allowed him to embark on ventures like starting a business in Africa during
a gap year. It was during this period that he truly understood the meaning of the information
gap and learned to exploit it for gains. They eventually accessed exclusive information
through the habitus they honed. However, the habitus they used to grasp these opportunities
was shaped by accumulated experience in elite education. As Gavillet (2019) notes, the
benefits of elite education often stem from the accumulation of resources and enriching
experiences that provide guidance and fault tolerance for their future choices (Nespor, 2014).

39

6 Conclusion

In conclusion, the primary finding is that the ability of international students to adapt to life
abroad and continuously gather valuable information is often developed through a globally
esteemed elite mechanism before their transition. If informational capital represents the "rules
of the game," the occurrence of cleft habitus presents each player with a choice. Consistent
with existing research, cultural shock may be pervasive for international students, which
usually thrust individuals into crisis. Successful cultural fit depends on whether this instance
is perceived as an opportunity to achieve better fit-in rather than a signal to retreat and
withdraw. Depending on their available resources and experience, individuals make different
choices. Some Chinese international students use their accumulated pre-existing habitus,
information, and social networks to cushion the initial discomforts of arriving in a new
environment. This strategy helps minimize internal struggles and facilitates a smoother
transition to university life overseas. However, to transcend superficial integration and gain a
richer experience, well-developed social networking skills, command of crucial information,
and proactivity in seizing opportunities should be necessary. Some Chinese international
students may actively integrate into the new environment under the guidance of their preexisting habitus, achieving a better cultural fit that involves more significant interaction with
40

the local culture. Continuously accessing efficient information about the new environment
using various strategies is decisive in this process.

Current research on international students primarily emphasizes the post-study-abroad
advantages and subsequent transformation in students' lives as they manage to shift sociocultural contexts to develop transnational identities and cultivate diverse selves. Instead of
discussing the benefits of study abroad experiences, this study shifts attention to the existing
capitals and habitus that shape international students' experiences in foreign academic and
social environments. Specifically, the focus seeks to understand how the privileges of
international students before studying abroad shape the practice forms that achieve cultural fit
in their overseas experiences. In doing this, it complements existing research by filling a gap
in understanding the antecedents of successful cultural fit. The findings also enhance the scope
of employing Bourdieu's framework in discussing straddlers' situation in facing navigational
difficulties within unfamiliar cultural territories. By offering critical insights into the transition
challenges of international students, these considerations are necessary in developing a more
inclusive and supportive educational environment to address their variegated needs.

The study also acknowledges limitations. Although the qualitative approach provides depth,
through the small sample size of eight participants from a controlled background, it lacks the
breadth and statistical power for broader generalizations. Relying solely on Bourdieu's
framework may restrict the interpretation of empirical results to one perspective. The sample
of eight Chinese international students from a single university does not represent all Chinese
students across the UK. Moreover, China's cultural and economic diversity suggests that
students from different backgrounds might encounter unique challenges. This research captures
a specific period of students' experiences. Future studies could employ longitudinal methods
to watch changes over time, adding insights into the dynamics of cultural fit. Besides,
41

integrating quantitative and qualitative methodologies in future research could enhance the
validity and breadth of understanding regarding the issues at hand.

7 Reference List
Andrade, M.S. (2006). International Students in English-speaking universities: Adjustment
Factors. Journal of Research in International Education, 5(2), pp.131–154.
Aries, E. and Seider, M. (2005). The Interactive Relationship between Class Identity and the
College Experience: the Case of Lower-Income Students. Qualitative Sociology, 28(4),
pp.419–443. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s11133-005-8366-1.
Basaran, T. and Olsson, C. (2017). Becoming International: on Symbolic Capital, Conversion
and Privilege. Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 46(2), pp.96–118.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/0305829817739636.
Bathmaker, A.-M., Ingram, N. and Waller, R. (2013). Higher education, Social Class and the
Mobilisation of capitals: Recognising and Playing the Game. British Journal of Sociology of
Education, 34(5-6), pp.723–743.
Bhattacharya, K. (2017). Fundamentals of Qualitative Research. New York: Routledge,
2017.: Routledge. doi:https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315231747.
Bogdan, R.C. and Biklen, S.K. (1998). Qualitative Research in Education. An Introduction to
Theory and Methods. Third Edition. Pearson.
Bourdieu , P. (2002). Habitus. In: Habitus: a Sense of Place. Ashgate.
Bourdieu , P. and Passeron, J.-C. (1977). Reproduction in Education, Society and
Culture. Sage Publications , Sage. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/0305006780140109.
Bourdieu, P. (1977). Outline of a Theory of Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
42

Bourdieu, P. (1984). Distinction: a Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste. London:
Routledge, Taylor & Francis Group.
Bourdieu, P. (1986). Forms of Capital. Journal of Economic Sociology, 3(5), pp.241–258.
Bourdieu, P. (1990a). In Other Words : Essays Towards Reflexive Sociology. California:
Stanford University Press.
Bourdieu, P. (1990b). The Logic of Practice. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Bourdieu, P. (2000). Pascalian Meditations. [online] Translated by R. Nice. Stanford
University Press. Stanford: Stanford University Press. Available at:
https://www.sup.org/books/title/?id=2042 [Accessed 8 Dec. 2023].
Bourdieu, P. (2006). Science of Science and Reflexivity. Cambridge ; Malden: Polity.
Bourdieu, P. and Wacquant, L. (2001). Neoliberal newspeak: Notes on the New Planetary
Vulgate. Radical Philosophy , 105(1).
Braun, V. and Clarke, V. (2006). Using Thematic Analysis in Psychology. Qualitative
Research in Psychology, 3(2), pp.77–101.
Braun, V. and Clarke, V. (2012). Thematic Analysis. APA Handbook of Research Methods in
psychology, Vol 2: Research designs: Quantitative, qualitative, neuropsychological, and
biological., [online] 2(2), pp.57–71. doi:https://doi.org/10.1037/13620-004.
Braun, V., Clarke, V. and Hayfield, N. (2019). ‘A Starting Point for Your journey, Not a
map’: Nikki Hayfield in Conversation with Virginia Braun and Victoria Clarke about
Thematic Analysis. Qualitative Research in Psychology, 19(2), pp.1–22.
Brown, L. (2007). The Incidence of Study-Related Stress in International Students in the
Initial Stage of the International Sojourn. Journal of Studies in International Education,
12(1), pp.5–28. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1028315306291587.
Brown, L. and Holloway, I. (2008). The Initial Stage of the International sojourn: Excitement
or Culture shock? British Journal of Guidance & Counselling, 36(1), pp.33–49.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/03069880701715689.
Cassidy, T. (2004). Mapping Variables Related to Social Identity, Distress and Perceived
Health in an Undergraduate Student Population. Social Psychology of Education, 7(3),
pp.339–352. doi:https://doi.org/10.1023/b:spoe.0000037504.24380.b3.

43

Cebolla-Boado, H., Hu, Y. and Soysal, Y.N. (2018). Why Study abroad? Sorting of Chinese
Students across British Universities. British Journal of Sociology of Education, 39(3),
pp.365–380. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01425692.2017.1349649.
Charmaz, K. (2019). Constructing Grounded Theory. [online] SAGE Publications Ltd.
Available at: https://uk.sagepub.com/en-gb/eur/constructing-grounded-theory/book235960.
Check, J. and Schutt, R.K. (2012). Research Methods in Education. Research Methods in
Education. SAGE Publications. doi:https://doi.org/10.4135/9781544307725.
Chen, Y. and Ross, H. (2015). ‘Creating a Home Away from Home’: Chinese Undergraduate
Student Enclaves in US Higher Education. Journal of Current Chinese Affairs, 44(3),
pp.155–181. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/186810261504400307.
Cohen, D. and Crabtree, B. (2006). Qualitative Research Guidelines Project. [online]
Qualres.org. Available at: http://www.qualres.org/HomeSemi-3629.html.
Creswell, J.W. (2013). Qualitative Inquiry & Research Design : Choosing among Five
Approaches. 3rd ed. Los Angeles: Sage Publications.
Creswell, J.W. and Poth, C.N. (2018). Qualitative Inquiry and Research Design. [online]
SAGE Publications Inc. Available at: https://us.sagepub.com/en-us/nam/qualitative-inquiryand-research-design/book246896.
Crozier, G., Reay, D., Clayton, J., Colliander, L. and Grinstead, J. (2008). Different Strokes
for Different folks: Diverse Students in Diverse Institutions – Experiences of Higher
Education. Research Papers in Education, 23(2), pp.167–177.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/02671520802048703.
DiCicco-Bloom, B. and Crabtree, B.F. (2006). The Qualitative Research Interview. Medical
Education, 40(4), pp.314–321. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2929.2006.02418.x.
Doughty, H.A. (2020). Administrative Ethics in the Corporate College. Advances in higher
education and professional development book series, pp.131–155.
doi:https://doi.org/10.4018/978-1-7998-4141-8.ch008.
Duffy, T.M. and Cunningham, D.J. (2006). Constructivism: Implications for the Design and
Delivery of Instruction. [online] members.aect.org. Available at:
https://members.aect.org/edtech/ed1/07/index.html.
Dunne, C. (2013). Exploring Motivations for Intercultural Contact among Host Country
University students: an Irish Case Study. International Journal of Intercultural Relations,
37(5), pp.567–578. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijintrel.2013.06.003.
44

Edgerton, J.D. and Roberts, L.W. (2014). Cultural Capital or habitus? Bourdieu and beyond
in the Explanation of Enduring Educational Inequality. School Field, [online] 12(2), pp.193–
220. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1477878514530231.
Elliot, D.L., Reid, K. and Baumfield, V. (2015). Beyond the amusement, Puzzlement and
challenges: an Enquiry into International Students’ Academic Acculturation. Studies in
Higher Education, 41(12), pp.2198–2217.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/03075079.2015.1029903.
Field, J. (2016). Social Capital. Abingdon, Oxon ; New York, NY : Routledge,: Routledge.
doi:https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203794623.
Friebertshäuser, B. (1992). Übergangsphase Studienbeginn. Eine Feldstudie Über Riten Der
Iniation in Einer Studentischen Fachkultur. www.abebooks.co.uk. Juventa Verlag.
Friedman, S. (2016). Habitus Clivé and the Emotional Imprint of Social Mobility. The
Sociological Review, 64(1), pp.129–147. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-954x.12280.
Gavillet, R. (2019). Experiential Learning and Its Impact on College Students. Texas
Education Review, [online] 7(1), pp.140–149. doi:https://doi.org/10.26153/tsw/21.
Gigler, B.-S. (2011). Informational Capabilities - the Missing Link for the Impact of ICT on
Development. SSRN Electronic Journal. doi:https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2191594.
Gill, S. (2010). The homecoming: an Investigation into the Effect That Studying Overseas
Had on Chinese postgraduates’ Life and Work on Their Return to China. Compare: A
Journal of Comparative and International Education, 40(3), pp.359–376.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/03057920903464555.
Grodsky, E. (2007). Compensatory Sponsorship in Higher Education. American Journal of
Sociology, 112(6), pp.1662–1712. doi:https://doi.org/10.1086/512707.
Gu, Q., Schweisfurth, M. and Day, C. (2009). Learning and Growing in a ‘Foreign’ context:
Intercultural Experiences of International Students. Compare: A Journal of Comparative and
International Education, 40(1), pp.7–23. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/03057920903115983.
Gurin, P., Dey, E., Hurtado, S. and Gurin, G. (2002). Diversity and Higher Education: Theory
and Impact on Educational Outcomes. Harvard Educational Review, 72(3), pp.330–367.
doi:https://doi.org/10.17763/haer.72.3.01151786u134n051.
Hannerz, U. (1990). Cosmopolitans and Locals in World Culture. Theory, Culture & Society,
7(2-3), pp.237–251. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/026327690007002014.

45

Holliman, A.J., Bastaman, A.S., Wu, H.S., Xu, S. and Waldeck, D. (2023). Exploring the
Experiences of International Chinese Students at a UK university: a Qualitative
Inquiry. Multicultural Learning and Teaching. doi:https://doi.org/10.1515/mlt-2022-0020.
Ingram, N. (2018). Working-Class Boys and Educational Success. Palgrave Studies in
Gender and Education. London: Palgrave Macmillan UK. doi:https://doi.org/10.1057/978-1137-40159-5.
Ingram, N. and Abrahams, J. (2015). Stepping outside of oneself: How a cleft-habitus Can
Lead to Greater Reflexivity through Occupying ‘the Third space’. In: J. Thatcher, N. Ingram,
C. Burke and J. Abrahams, eds., Bourdieu: the next generation: the Development of
Bourdieu’s Intellectual Heritage in Contemporary UK Sociology. Routledge, pp.140–156.
Ivemark, B. and Ambrose, A. (2023). From Doxic Breach to Cleft habitus: affect, Reflexivity
and Dispositional Disjunctures. British Journal of Sociology of Education, 44(5), pp.944–
961. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01425692.2023.2209286.
Jamaluddin, A.S. and Idrus, F. (2021). Surmounting Stereotyping of International
Students. Theory and Practice in Language Studies, 11(9), pp.1121–1130.
doi:https://doi.org/10.17507/tpls.1109.20.
Kallio, H., Pietilä, A.-M., Johnson, M. and Kangasniemi, M. (2016). Systematic
Methodological review: Developing a Framework for a Qualitative semi-structured Interview
Guide. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 72(12), pp.2954–2965.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/jan.13031.
Kim, T. (2010). Transnational Academic mobility, knowledge, and Identity
Capital. Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, 31(5), pp.577–591.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01596306.2010.516939.
Kim, Y.-R. (2020). Classed Education Trajectories and Intimate Partnering of International
students: a Case of Chinese International Undergraduate Students in the United
States. Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, 49(5), pp.1–19.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/1369183x.2020.1828841.
Kim, Y.Y. (2008). Intercultural personhood: Globalization and a Way of Being. International
Journal of Intercultural Relations, 32(4), pp.359–368.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijintrel.2008.04.005.
Lamont, M. and Lareau, A. (1988). Cultural Capital: Allusions, Gaps and Glissandos in
Recent Theoretical Developments. Sociological Theory, [online] 6(2), p.153.
doi:https://doi.org/10.2307/202113.
46

Lareau, A. and Horvat, E.M. (1999). Moments of Social Inclusion and Exclusion race, class,
and Cultural Capital in family-school Relationships. Sociology of Education, 72(1), pp.37–
53. doi:https://doi.org/10.2307/2673185.
Lareau, A. and Weininger, E.B. (2003). Cultural Capital in Educational research:
A critical assessment. Theory and Society, [online] 32(5/6), pp.567–606.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1023/b:ryso.0000004951.04408.b0.
Lee, E.M. and Kramer, R. (2012). Out with the Old, In with the New? Habitus and Social
Mobility at Selective Colleges. Sociology of Education, 86(1), pp.18–35.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/0038040712445519.
Lehmann, W. (2013). Habitus Transformation and Hidden Injuries. Sociology of Education,
87(1), pp.1–15. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/0038040713498777.
Lessky, F., Nairz‐Wirth, E. and Feldmann, K. (2021). Informational capital and the transition
to university: First‐in‐family students’ experiences in Austrian higher education. European
Journal of Education, 56(1), pp.27–40. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/ejed.12437.
Long Finance (2020). GFCI 28 Rank. [online] www.longfinance.net. Available at:
https://www.longfinance.net/programmes/financial-centre-futures/global-financial-centresindex/gfci-28-explore-data/gfci-28-rank/.
Lubrano, A. (2005). Limbo : blue-collar roots, white-collar Dreams. [online] New York ;
Chichester: Wiley. Available at: https://www.wiley.com/enus/Limbo%3A+Blue+Collar+Roots%2C+White+Collar+Dreams-p-9780471714392.
Marginson, S. (2014a). Student Self-Formation in International Education. Journal of Studies
in International Education, 18(1), pp.6–22. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1028315313513036.
Marginson, S. (2014b). Student Self-Formation in International Education. Journal of Studies
in International Education, 18(1), pp.6–22. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1028315313513036.
Martin, F. (2016). Overseas Study as ‘Escape Route’ for Young Chinese Women. University
of Nottingham.
Martin, S.R. and Harrison, S. (2022). Upward Mobility, the Cleft Habitus, and Speaking Up:
How Class Transitions Relate to Individual and Organizational Antecedents of
Voice. Academy of Management Journal. doi:https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2020.1550.
Meiklejohn, C., Hickey, A. and Riddle, S. (2023). ‘It Comes with More Baggage than
prestige’: Deferred Culpability and Disavowal among Elite Boys’ School Alumni. Discourse,
18 Jun., pp.1–13. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01596306.2023.2224244.
47

Munk, M.D. (2009). Transnational Investments in Informational Capital. Acta Sociologica,
52(1), pp.5–23. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/0001699308100631.
Nespor, J. (2014). Schooling for the long-term: Elite Education and Temporal
Accumulation. Zeitschrift für Erziehungswissenschaft, 17(S3), pp.27–42.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s11618-014-0520-7.
Newsome, L.K. and Cooper, P. (2016). International Students’ Cultural and Social
Experiences in a British University: ‘Such a Hard Life [it] Is Here’. Journal of International
Students, 6(1), pp.195–215. doi:https://doi.org/10.32674/jis.v6i1.488.
Nuñez, A.-M. (2009). Latino Students’ Transitions to College: A Social and Intercultural
Capital Perspective. Harvard Educational Review, 79(1), pp.22–48.
doi:https://doi.org/10.17763/haer.79.1.wh7164658k33w477.
O’Shea, D.W. and Richardson, J.G. (1987). Handbook of Theory and Research for the
Sociology of Education. Contemporary Sociology, 16(4), p.571.
doi:https://doi.org/10.2307/2069964.
O’Shea, S. (2019). Crossing Boundaries: Rethinking the Ways That first-in-family Students
Navigate ‘Barriers’ to Higher Education. British Journal of Sociology of Education, 41(1),
pp.95–110. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01425692.2019.1668746.
Ostrower, F. (1998). The arts as cultural capital among elites: Bourdieu’s theory
reconsidered. Poetics, 26(1), pp.43–53. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/s0304-422x(98)00010-2.
Ovie, G.R. and Barrantes, L. (2019a). A Dialogue of Shared Discoveries on Immigration: a
Duoethnography of International Students in Canada. Interchange, 50(3), pp.273–291.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s10780-019-09364-2.
Ovie, G.R. and Barrantes, L. (2019b). A Dialogue of Shared Discoveries on Immigration: a
Duoethnography of International Students in Canada. Interchange, 50(3), pp.273–291.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s10780-019-09364-2.
Oyefuga, E. and Shakeshaft, C. (2021). Social Capital and the Higher Education Academic
achievement: Using cross-classified Multilevel Models to Understanding the Impact of
Society on Educational Outcomes. Youth & Society, 55(1), p.0044118X2110429.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/0044118x211042912.
Peacock, N. and Harrison, N. (2008). ‘It’s so Much Easier to Go with What’s Easy’. Journal
of Studies in International Education, 13(4), pp.487–508.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1028315308319508.
48

Peng, H. (2015). Dandyism and Transcultural Modernity. Routledge.
Ponzini, A. (2020). Educating the New Chinese middle-class youth: the Role of Quality
Education on Ideas of Class and Status. The Journal of Chinese Sociology, 7(1).
doi:https://doi.org/10.1186/s40711-019-0113-1.
Ponzini, A. (2021). Institutional and policy-related Implications on Quality Education Access
in Shanghai: Middle-class locals, Outsiders and Foreigners Compared. Cogent Social
Sciences, 7(1), p.1909793. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/23311886.2021.1909793.
Ramsay, S., Jones, E. and Barker, M. (2006). Relationship between Adjustment and Support
Types: Young and Mature-aged Local and International First Year University
Students. Higher Education, [online] 54(2), pp.247–265. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734006-9001-0.
Reay, D. (2017). Miseducation: Inequality, Education and the Working Classes. Bristol:
Policy Press.
Rizvi, F. (2011). Theorizing Student Mobility in an Era of Globalization. Teachers and
Teaching, 17(6), pp.693–701. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/13540602.2011.625145.
Ryan, G.W. and Bernard, H.R. (2003). Techniques to Identify Themes. Field Methods, 15(1),
pp.85–109. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1525822X02239569.
Santos, C.T. and Costa, L.A.L. da S. (2015). Informational Capital and Sens Du jeu:
Identifying the Quality of Higher Education. Vibrant: Virtual Brazilian Anthropology, 12(2),
pp.233–272. doi:https://doi.org/10.1590/1809-43412015v12n2p233.
Sassen, S. (2019). The Global City. [online] Princeton.edu. Available at:
https://press.princeton.edu/books/paperback/9780691070636/the-global-city.
Scanlon, L., Rowling, L. and Weber, Z. (2007). ‘You don’t Have like an Identity … you Are
Just Lost in a crowd’: Forming a Student Identity in the First-year Transition to
University. Journal of Youth Studies, 10(2), pp.223–241.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/13676260600983684.
Shen, J. (2023). A Study of Elite Education in Chinese International High Schools. Journal of
education, humanities and social sciences, 17, pp.134–139.
doi:https://doi.org/10.54097/ehss.v17i.10477.
Sherry, M., Thomas, P. and Chui, W.H. (2010). International students: a Vulnerable Student
Population. Higher Education, [online] 60(1), pp.33–46. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734009-9284-z.
49

Silverman, D. (2001). Interpreting Qualitative Research : Methods for Analysing talk, Text
and Interaction. London: Sage.
Sovic, S. (2009). Hi-bye Friends and the Herd instinct: International and Home Students in
the Creative Arts. Higher Education, 58(6), pp.747–761. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734009-9223-z.
Spencer-Oatey, H., Dauber, D., Jing, J. and Lifei, W. (2017). Chinese Students’ Social
Integration into the University community: Hearing the Students’ Voices. Higher Education,
74(5), pp.739–756. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734-016-0074-0.
St, E.P., Hu, S. and Fisher, A.S. (2010). Breaking through the Access Barrier. Routledge.
Stanton-Salazar, R. (1997). A Social Capital Framework for Understanding the Socialization
of Racial Minority Children and Youths. Harvard Educational Review, 67(1), pp.1–41.
doi:https://doi.org/10.17763/haer.67.1.140676g74018u73k.
Sullivan, A., Parsons, S., Green, F. and Wiggins, R. (2016). Social origins, Elite Education
and Elite Destinations. [online] Available at: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/ioe/sites/ioe/files/clssocial-origins-elite-education-and-elite-destinations.pdf.
Swidler, A. (1986). Culture in Action: Symbols and Strategies. American Sociological
Review, [online] 51(2), pp.273–286. doi:https://doi.org/10.2307/2095521.
Tasic, J. and Amir, S. (2016). Informational Capital and Disaster resilience: the Case of Jalin
Merapi. Disaster Prevention and Management: An International Journal, 25(3), pp.395–411.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1108/dpm-07-2015-0163.
Taylor, M.C. (2005). Qualitative Research in Health Care. www.scirp.org, New York: Open
University Press, pp.39–55.
Terenzini, P.T., Rendon, L.I., Lee Upcraft, M., Millar, S.B., Allison, K.W., Gregg, P.L. and
Jalomo, R. (1994). The Transition to college: Diverse students, Diverse Stories. Research in
Higher Education, [online] 35(1), pp.57–73. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/bf02496662.
Tsai, J.L., Chentsova-Dutton, Y. and Wong, Y. (2002). Why and How We Should Study
Ethnic identity, acculturation, and Cultural orientation. In: Asian American psychology: the
Science of Lives in context. American Psychological Association, pp.41–65.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1037/10473-002.
UK Council for International Students Affairs (2017). International Student Statistics. UK
Higher Education.

50

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (2019). Global Flow of
Tertiary-Level Students. [online] uis.unesco.org. Available at: https://uis.unesco.org/en/uisstudent-flow.
Wang, S. (2020). Self in mobility: Exploring the Transnational in-between Identity of
Chinese Student Returnees from the UK. Compare: a Journal of Comparative and
International Education, 52(6), pp.1–18.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/03057925.2020.1840335.
Wang, S. (2022). The Transnational In‐between Identity of Chinese Student Returnees from
the UK: Mobility, Variations and Pathways. British Educational Research Journal, 48(3).
doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/berj.3781.
Wengraf, T. (2001). Qualitative Research Interviewing.
doi:https://doi.org/10.4135/9781849209717.
Winkler, C. and Sriram, R. (2015). Development of a Scale to Measure Academic Capital in
High-Risk College Students. The Review of Higher Education, 38(4), pp.565–587.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1353/rhe.2015.0032.
Yin, R.K. (2016). Qualitative Research from Start to Finish. 2nd ed. New York ; London:
The Guilford Press.
Yosso, T.J. (2005). Whose Culture Has capital? a Critical Race Theory Discussion of
Community Cultural Wealth. Race Ethnicity and Education, 8(1), pp.69–91.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/1361332052000341006.
Yu, Y. and Moskal, M. (2018). Missing Intercultural Engagements in the University
Experiences of Chinese International Students in the UK. Compare: A Journal of
Comparative and International Education, 49(4), pp.1–18.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/03057925.2018.1448259.
Zhang, S. and Tang, X. (2021). Cultural Capital as Class Strength and Gendered Educational
Choices of Chinese Female Students in the United Kingdom. Frontiers in Psychology, 11.
doi:https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2020.584360.
Zhang, Y. (2023). Chinese students’ Social Experiences at a University in the United
Kingdom. doi:https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/4d6tz.

51

8 Appendix
Appendix 1
BA Education Studies Dissertation Ethics Application Form 2023-2024
Once you have gained the approval of your supervisor, you must upload the signed
form in the ‘BA dissertation ethics application form’ submission box (available within
the Ethics tab on moodle) at least one week before you plan to commence data
collection.
Name: GWLS2
Title: Mapping the Journey: Understanding the Role of Habitus and Capitals in Chinese
International Students' Cultural Fit
Confirmation of Informed Consent. Will you gain the informed consent of participants? How
will this be obtained?
Yes, participants will be contacted via my ucl email address for confirmation of their
willingness and pre-interview questions to gather essential information. The informed
consent will be provided before the interview. Prior to their participation, participants will be
fully informed about the research's objectives, benefits, potential risks, and data protection
measures. This information will be provided through participant information sheets and
written informed consent forms, which will be designed to ensure competence, non-coercion,
full disclosure, and comprehension. Participants will be given the opportunity to understand
and agree to take part in the research, including being made aware of any potential harm.
They will also have the right to withdraw their participation at any point during the study.
Will you guarantee the anonymity and confidentiality of your participants? How will this be
achieved?
Yes, I am committed to ensuring the anonymity and confidentiality of participants throughout
the research process. I would claim that if the interview is taken place in any public space,
then there might be a decrease in confidentiality. There may also limits to confidentiality if
they tell you something that may put themselves, you or other people in danger. This will be
explicitly communicated to participants in the information sheet. However, confidentiality
will be rigorously upheld by employing aliases and obscuring specific personal details,
including but not limited to exact location, institution, or occupation, as necessary. To
achieve this, all personal identifiers will be carefully removed and replaced with pseudonyms
to keep authenticity and respect for participants. The results will be presented in aggregate
form, ensuring that individual participants cannot be identified. Additionally, all data will be
securely stored, and access will be restricted to authorized members of the research team to
safeguard participant information.
52

Storage of Data.
During the Research:
Where will the data be stored? What measures will you take to ensure the safe storage of
data.
All personal data will be stored and processed in compliance with the General Data
Protection Registration (GDPR). Data collected will be processed anonymously in research
findings to safeguard participants' privacy and prevent any potential breaches. The recordings
will be transcribed as fast as possible after the interview and deleted immediately.
Transcribed documents are uploaded to UCL (N:) Drive which provides secure, encrypted
file storage that is backed up daily. All transcribed and analytical documents are deleted at
the end of the academic year. Compliance with data protection regulations will be
maintained, and data will not be used for any purposes beyond the research.
After the Research:
Where will the data be stored?
How long will the data and records be kept for and in what format?
I will delete all the data after I received my BA qualification. And I will not be archiving my
data for other researchers to use.
Confirm that all personal data will be stored and processed in compliance with the General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). (see guidance on moodle).
Yes
Are there particular features of the proposed work which may raise ethical concerns or add
to the complexity of ethical decision making? If so, please outline how you will deal with
these.
It is important that you demonstrate your awareness of potential risks or harm that may
arise as a result of your research. You should then demonstrate that you have considered
ways to minimise the likelihood and impact of each potential harm that you have
identified. Please be as specific as possible in describing the ethical issues you will have to
address. Please consider / address ALL issues that may apply.
Ethical concerns may include, but not be limited to, the following areas:
− International research
− Methods
− Risks to participants and/or researchers
− Sampling
− Confidentiality/Anonymity
− Recruitment
− Disclosures/limits to confidentiality
− Gatekeepers
− Data storage and security both during and after
− Informed consent
the research (including transfer, sharing,
− Potentially vulnerable
encryption, protection)
participants
− Reporting
− Safeguarding/child
− Dissemination and use of findings
protection
− Sensitive topics

53

My research covers the sensitive and personal topics of people’s social economic status. It
is important to maintain a fair and balanced representation of fair and unbiased treatment of
all participants, irrespective of their gender, age, university, proficiency and personal
experiences will be ensured. Throughout the project I will ensure that I reflect on my
position to minimize bias. Participants will confirm their voluntariness through my UCL
email address and will ensure that the participant information form and written informed
consent are signed by them prior to the start of the interview. I will use anonymity methods
such as pseudonyms to ensure the confidentiality of this study. Audio recordings will be
transcribed as soon as possible and deleted immediately. The transcription files will be
stored in a password protected UCL (N:) and no one other than myself and my supervisor
will have access to it. All participants will be able to withdraw at any time until the 1st of
April. Transparency throughout the research process will allow participants and the public
to be informed about the research methodology and results. Additionally, external
oversight and peer review will be welcomed to guarantee the scientific validity and
reliability of the research methods.
Please attach the consent form and information sheet templates along with this form if you
are undertaking empirical research. This is a prerequisite to gaining ethical approval for your
project.
I have read, understood and will abide by the BERA set of guidelines (if you are adhering to
a different set of guidelines- eg. British Sociological Association, state here).
Yes:
No:
I confirm that to the best of my knowledge:
The above information is correct and that this is a full description of the ethics issues that
may arise in the course of this project.
Student’s signature:
GWLS2
27/01/2024
Final Approval by Supervisor. It should be noted that the initial submission of this form
(as an appendix to the final draft of your research proposal) is likely to lead to
suggested amendments by your supervisor (e.g. requests for clarification, suggestions
for considerations of ethical issues that may have been overlooked etc.). Once all
relevant considerations have been sufficiently addressed your supervisor will sign
below.
Supervisor’s Approval
I am satisfied the relevant ethical considerations have been addressed:
Supervisors Signature

Date: 25/01/2024
Any Further comments:
Once the above approval by the supervisor has been granted, the signed form must be
uploaded by the student on the Ethics Approval Submission box at least one week before
54

you plan to begin data collection:
https://moodle.ucl.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=34946&section=22

Appendix 2
Mapping the Journey:
Understanding the Role of Habitus and Capitals in Chinese International Students'
Cultural Fit
11/2023-5/2024
Information sheet for interviewees
My name is GWLS2 and I am inviting you to take in part in my research project, Mapping
the Journey: Understanding the Role of Habitus and Capitals in Chinese International
Students' Cultural Fit. I am an undergraduate student at the UCL Institute of Education
currently working on my dissertation research. The Institute of Education is responsible for a
quarter of all education research in the UK and has consistently held the top global ranking in
the field of Education for eight consecutive years (UCL 2021).
In this study I am hoping to delve into the impact of mobility on international students'
habitus, examining their level of awareness and how this phenomenon influences their lived
experiences. This research aims to explore the experiences of international students during
global transitions. I very much hope that you would like to take part. This information sheet
will try and answer any questions you might have about the project, but please don’t hesitate
to contact me if there is anything else you would like to know.
Who is carrying out the research?
All research is carried out by GWLS2 with support from my supervisor Olga Cara.
Why are we doing this research?
I would like to learn about your study abroad experience compared to your previous
experiences in the home country and what the study abroad experience offered you.
Why am I being invited to take part?
You are selected because you are currently studying abroad, and you are an undergraduate
student that meets the requirements of this study.
What will happen if I choose to take part?
You are expected to participate in a 30-minute in person interview to discuss your personal
experience and insights. I will begin with some simple personal questions as an icebreaker
and then invite you to share your study abroad experiences and discuss your views and
attitudes. All questions are open and there no right or wrong answers.

55

Will anyone know I have been involved?
Although this is a face-to-face interview, I will still ensure maximum anonymity and
confidentiality. The recordings will be stored under the labels of your pseudonym. All
transcripts and following analysis in the dissertation will not contain your names or any other
identifiable information. Besides, you always have the right to withdrawal. Please inform me
by 1st April.
Could there be problems for me if I take part?
You will not be judged by your performance during the research and there will be no
consequences regarding if you decide not to answer some or all questions during the
interview. All the results will be presented anonymously.
What will happen to the results of the research?
I will be recording this interview, but all recordings will be stored anonymously on a
password-protected drive and will be deleted after transcripts have been made. No other use
will be made of the data without your written permission, and no one outside the project will
be allowed access to the original recordings.
Do I have to take part?
It is entirely up to you whether or not you choose to take part. I hope that if you do choose to
be involved then you will find it a valuable experience. If you choose to participate, you will
receive this information sheet for your records and will be requested to sign a consent form.
You have the option to withdraw at any point, and your decision will not impact any entitled
benefits. In the event of withdrawal, you will be inquired about your preferences regarding
the data you have contributed up to that point. The decision is not related to any grades.
Data Protection Privacy Notice
The data controller for this project will be University College London (UCL). The UCL Data
Protection Office provides oversight of UCL activities involving the processing of personal
data, and can be contacted at data-protection@ucl.ac.uk. UCL’s Data Protection Officer can
also be contacted at data-protection@ucl.ac.uk. Further information on how UCL uses
participant information can be found here:
https://www.ucl.ac.uk/legal-services/privacy/ucl-general-research-participant-privacynotice
The legal basis that would be used to process your personal data will be UK GDPR
legislation. The legal basis used to process special category personal data will be for
scientific and historical research or statistical purposes/explicit consent.
Your personal data will be processed so long as it is required for the research project.
If we are able to anonymise or pseudonymise the personal data you provide we will
undertake this, and will endeavour to minimise the processing of personal data wherever
possible. If you are concerned about how your personal data is being processed, or if you
would like to contact us about your rights, please contact UCL in the first instance at dataprotection@ucl.ac.uk.
Contact for further information
If you have any further questions before you decide whether to take part, you can reach me at
email: stnvyg9@ucl.ac.uk, mobile: 07493830444.
56

If you would like to be involved, please complete the following consent form and return to
stnvyg9@ucl.ac.uk.
Thank you very much for taking the time to read this information sheet.

Appendix 3
Mapping the Journey: Understanding the Role of Habitus and Capitals in Chinese
International Students' Cultural Fit
Consent for Interviews: Chinese International Students

57

(tick as
appropriate)
I confirm that I have read and understood the information sheet, and have had the
opportunity to consider the information, ask questions, and have had these questions
adequately answered.
I understand that my participation is voluntary and that I am free to withdraw at any
time, without giving any reason.
I know that I can refuse to answer any or all of the questions and that I can
withdraw from the interview at any point.
I agree for the interview to be recorded, and that recordings will be kept secure and
destroyed at the end of the project. I know that all data will be kept under the terms
of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
I agree that small direct quotes may be used in reports (these will be anonymised).
In understand that in exceptional circumstances anonymity and confidentiality
would have to be broken, for example, if it was felt that my wellbeing is at risk, or
there were concerns regarding academic misconduct or any safeguarding issues. In
these circumstances advice would be sought from my dissertation supervisor and
the module leader who will advise as to the appropriate course of action and as to
whether an authority needs to be informed.

Name:…………………………………………………………………………..………………….
Signature: ……………………………………………….……………. Date: …………..……..
Name of researcher: GWLS2
Signature: GWLS2 Date:27/01/2024

Appendix 4
Interview Guide
Warm-up: context pre-departure in China
58

1

Which subject are you majoring in UCL? How does it compare so far to what you

expected when you chose this school and your major?
-

Is there useful suggestion you gained during the application.

2

Could you tell me a little about your educational background? Which high school did

you attend in China, and how would you describe the education this school provided?
-

Was your high school an international school and have you studied the British

curriculum? How has this school experience impacted your studies uni in the UK?
3

Have your nuclear family members ever experience higher education? Have they

described their experiences with you?
-

How do this information compare to your actual experiences at UCL?

-

How has this knowledge affected your expectations and adaptation to life in the UK?

4

What actions did you take to prepare and adapt more effectively? (For example, did

you watch educational videos, learn specific dialects, or study colloquial expressions to blend
in?)
-

How useful do you think is the information and skills you brought from China for

studying in the UK?
-

Why did you feel it was necessary to take these actions?

Cultural Fit: Cultural Shock and Adaptation
1

Upon arriving in the UK, what aspects of both your daily life and academic settings

did you find different compared to China? What and why do they seem different?
-

In what ways the academic practices in the UK are different from the ones in China?

(e.g. treating higher education as a consumption, plagiarism and referencing policies and the
use of AI?)
-

In what ways do you feel that language has played a role in your cultural adaptation

process in academic environment? Can you share a particular incident where language either
facilitated or hindered your cultural integration?
2

What strategies have you employed to adjust to the academic and social environment

at UCL?
-

Have there been any specific cultural aspects that you've embraced or particularly

struggled with?
59

-

Reflecting on your journey since arriving in the UK, would you say you've

experienced a series of stages starting with cultural shock, then moving to acceptance, and
finally integrating new cultural experiences with your existing culture?
-

Have there been moments during your time here when you've felt the need to

withdraw or protect yourself from the cultural and psychological challenges of adapting?
Informational Capital
1

Can you give an example of a ‘rule of the game’ for studying in UCL?

2

Have you observed instances where your peers seemed to understand and utilize

resources and policies more efficiently? E.g. Google Scholar, the Extenuating Circumstances,
or the UCL Career Center
-

Are these students sharing any properties? ( BBC/ABC? Local?)

-

What do you know about your dissertation or any exam and project you must pass in

order to graduate (before year 3)?
3

How did you learn about critical timelines, such as exam schedules or assignment

deadlines, and how important is this knowledge for your academic planning?
4

Have you experienced any setbacks due to unfamiliarity with these 'rules of the game'

in the UK university system?
5

Through what channels have you found information that has been essential for

navigating university life?
-

How did you come across these resources?

-

What role have platforms like WeChat groups, Whatsapp groups, or CSSA official

accounts played in your social integration and information gathering?
Peer Network and Activities
1

Did you know any friends or seniors before coming here who already studied in the UK?
-

Have they shared their experiences with you? How has this network affected

your adaptation to life in the UK?
-

What tips have you learned about navigating university life that were shared by

current classmates or seniors when you arrived at the UK?

60

2

Have official school activities, such as the transition mentor program or orientation

seminars, provided you with practical tips for university life?
-

Have university-organized social events been effective in helping you build lasting

relationships? Can you give examples of such events and how they help you to gain more
information?
3

Have you felt the difference in social interaction modes between university and high
school?

-

What are they and how do you feel about them?

4

How well do you feel integrated into your peer group and the broader university

community so far?
-

Does a sense of belonging or recognition contribute to you adapting more quickly?

Cleft Habitus
1

Is there any tensions between the cultural habits of your upbringing and the

environment and your life in the UK?
-

Have there been specific situations where you've had to make a choice between

following the cultural practices of your home country and those you've encountered in the
UK? Could you describe that experience and the decision you made?
(Learn something you know won't be on a test or final paper or push yourself to attend the
office hour)
2

Did you have to adapt to a new way of learning or a different academic expectation at

UCL? Could you please mention some examples?
3

How have your pre-university habits and practices either facilitated or hindered your

adaptation to the dominant academic and social norms at your university?
4

When you realize that you can't be culturally fit, do you think it's because you didn't

try hard enough to reach out to these cultures, your family didn't provide a platform or
because the school didn't assist you in a better way.

61