Introduction

This paper examines the multimodal presentation artifact "White Cube As a Mode of
Presentation." The white cube, often associated with hierarchical and exclusive
museums, is frequently perceived to rely excessively on specialized knowledge,
creating high entry barriers and making it difficult for people to participate in
discussions (Trofanenko and Segall, 2014). This artifact aims to demystify the white
cube discourse, thus enhancing broader engagement. As a mediator, I render this
concept accessible to my model reader(audience)—high school students interested in
art but lacking formal art-related education, ideally with some exhibition experience.
When introducing the "white cube" debate, I draw upon foundational knowledge from
five common high school subjects. This knowledge that both the audience and I have
learned acts as both common communicative code and context that play crucial role in
communication. Therefore, the importance of this background knowledge is stated at
the beginning for viewer discretion.

I envision this artifact as an educational tool for classroom use beyond social media,
such as YouTube. The presentation balances professionalism and entertainment by
strategically combining sensory elements like tone, imagery, and sound effects. I made
this artifact a balanced and organic whole by employing various sensory inputs and
communication strategies. Although it aims to facilitate individual reflection, through
careful consideration and refinement, the artifact is ultimately designed to communicate

2

my intentions.

This reflective essay explores how various theories, including Dewey's effective
communication, Eco's model and empirical readers, open and closed texts, Schön's
reflexive and rational models, and Jakobson's functions of language, simultaneously
guide the creation of the artifact through nuanced and continuous balancing.

Consider the Artifact as Multimodal

As an exhibition space, the white cube is a medium for communication and public
education, facilitating the dissemination of knowledge and the formation of
perspectives (Trofanenko and Segall, 2014). It also demonstrates strong multimodality
characteristics. Multimodality is a communication approach that directs the addresser
to engage all available modes of communication (Kress, 2010). In my preparatory
process, I envisioned myself as a curator selecting and configuring modes, employing
various strategies, and assembling them appropriately to engage the audience best.
Increased sensory engagement makes abstract concepts more concrete and encourages
unique interpretations (Jewitt, 2011; Kress, 2010). For instance, around the third minute,
muting the background noise highlights the "undisturbed" nature of the white cube
through auditory cues. In a multimodal context, assemblages provide a theoretical
foundation and emphasize both the independence and interaction of sensory
components. As a pedagogical assemblage, it serves as a site of knowledge creation,

3

where diverse semiotic systems and communication elements converge to collectively
forge the audience's subjective perceptions. (Simon, 1992). The visual design serves
two purposes: to present essential information while maximizing aesthetics clearly. In
other words, under the premise of not compromising the clarity of the information
conveyed, assemble an exquisite and aesthetic impression. Additionally, charming
explanatory illustrations, paired with playful sound effects, mitigate the potential
monotony of the presentation, making it suitable for teenage audiences.

Key terms are highlighted with vivid colors, using visually striking images to fill the
entire screen in crucial sections. Secondary information is subtly incorporated within
the slides, maintaining a balance between foregrounding primary content and offering
possibilities for further exploration. Subtitles, while potentially distracting, are essential
for reaching a wider audience, including those with hearing impairments. As with
exhibitions, this artifact's dominant modes of communication are visual and auditory,
yet the mode of display is critical for interpretation and engagement (Trofanenko and
Segall, 2014). All elements' arrangement and timing were meticulously planned and
tested. I withdraw a straightforward catalog to avoid over-stratifying the content due to
assumption-laden mapping (Lowe and Brotton, 2017). Exaggerated transition
animations address the lack of precise segmentation, such as the shift from white cube’s
basic concepts to related debate at 8:27.

Effective Communication: The Subtle Collaboration between Models, Texts, and

4

Readers

This artifact is crafted to enable audiences to generate personal interpretations, aligning
Dewey's (1916) emphasis on communication as a critical societal function and
transmitting insightful ideas across generations. Outlining the expectation of the creator
and the potential rewards of watching the video positions the audience as full-fledged
model readers who actively interpret the author's intentions and develop their stance in
discussions (Pisanty, 2015). Effective communication requires common understanding
and like-mindedness. To achieve this, Schön's (1988) rational and reflective models
guide different sections of the artifact, each tailored to specific communication aims.
Besides, the text uses language that resonates with the audience to ensure
communicative effectiveness (Eco, 1979). Establishing a model audience that
understands the artifact's nuances and layered meanings is crucial for developing
communication strategies.

A predictable, repetitive, closed text lays a comprehensive and objective knowledge
base to ensure all audiences share a common understanding before moving to subjective
interpretations. This approach, grounded in the rational model, highlights truthfulness
and maximizes language's referential function. For example, introducing the white cube
concept with screenshots of O'Doherty's (1976) original article enhances credibility.
This phase uses real-world images, direct quotes, research articles, and expert opinions
to form a factual concept of the white cube without seeking personal interpretations.

5

Building on this foundation, Schön's (1988) reflective model instructs in stimulating
independent thinking and broad awareness. Unlike the rational model's linear
information flow aimed at preventing distortion, the reflective model views
communication as a two-way process, accommodating the audience's perspectives,
biases, and interests while allowing the creative application of knowledge.

Moreover, it is the empirical reader, not the idealized model reader, who interprets the
text. To accommodate the disparity, I switch from closed text to open text, which rejects
definitive and concluded messages. Open text greatly values viewers' creative
interpretations and their unique encyclopedic knowledge (Eco,1989; Guillemette &
Cossette, 2006). This model also emphasizes the interplay of elements, enhancing the
multimodal nature of the presentation and letting the audience bring their contexts to
their interaction with the artifact. As the social climate and discourse continuously
evolve, it is challenging for creators to grasp shifting realities fully (Francese, 2003).

Nonetheless, the indeterminate zone of this artifact acknowledges and adapts
indeterminacy (Schön, 1988). Empirical readers, as described by Eco (1979), "make
sense" of texts by filtering them through their cognitive and encyclopedic structures
(Pisanty, 2015), resulting in diverse reactions that may not align perfectly with the
author's intended paths. This diversity fulfills the open texts and accomplishes multiple
or mediated interpretations. The audience's understanding of the metaphors,
individually or collectively, depends highly on their interpretative context.

6

Despite this openness, the creating process inherently guides interpretations towards
the pre-established way to realize foreseen communicative results. Although the result
empowers audiences to form individual standpoints (Schön, 1988), it is eventually
pedagogical guidance toward my intentions- a typical result of closed texts (Eco, 1979).
Eco (1989) argues that a genuinely open text should let audiences interpret freely
without external influences. Although this artifact avoids a didactic tone, it offers clear
interpretive paths. Instead, in this case, the openness itself is what Eco (1989, p. 4) calls
the never impinged 'unalterable specificity.'

Lastly, Eco(1993) notes that reshaping information is common when engaging with
texts. To manage deformation or overinterpretations, establishing a range of acceptable
interpretations is essential (Guillemette & Cossette, 2006). As mentioned before, in this
artifact, full-fledged model readers who grasp the creator's intent are more likely to
correct interpretations by adapting their horizon of expectation to the text (Eco, 1994;
Francese, 2003). This awareness, combined with the close text upfront and using
illustrations and metaphors, retains the ability to interpret content within a controlled
yet open framework.

Recontextualization: Using Metaphors to Bridge Knowledge Gaps

Dowling (2020) describes recontextualization as transforming texts and practices when

7

they are moved between different contexts of reading or enactment. In presenting the
complex and abstract concept of the white cube, I used a series of metaphors to assist
audiences in grasping new, elusive information through familiar concepts. These
metaphors not only stimulate reflective thinking, aiding long-term memory but also
illuminate the intricate nature of this discussion, encouraging diverse contributions to
its discussion. Through the lens of assemblages, each metaphor strategically contributes
to the audience's holistic understanding of the concept. Continuous exposure to these
metaphors even facilitates corrective interaction among understandings toward each
metaphor, thereby increasing the depth and effectiveness of communication.

In educating high school students about the white cube, I rely on a "communal high
school knowledge cupboard" of shared signs and symbols to construct meanings
(Cobley, 2005). By tapping into their existing knowledge in familiar domains, I make
new concepts in new domains accessible. The idea of a vacuum in physics, devoid of
matter and sets the stage for ideal gases, serves as a prerequisite for understanding this
part and justifies the choice of this metaphor. This knowledge is included in the physics
syllabus. To ensure the explanations used during recontextualization align with the
knowledge base of model readers, I consulted nine high school students from various
countries. By fully understanding the audience's level of knowledge, I selected the most
appropriate method of recontextualization (referential function). Given the artifact's
long-term online availability, I choose time-tested metaphors. While I can't ensure that
the empirical audience will access the information from my knowledge base used in

8

creating the artifact, it should at least be currently accessible to my model reader. In
addition to adjusting language based on the model reader's encyclopedia, all
presentation elements follow this principle. An artwork is needed as a reference point
in the coordinating system metaphor to encourage reflection on the white cube's
significance as an exhibition form. Contemporary artworks are suitable but may not be
easily recognized due to lower popularity. Therefore, I use the more recognizable Mona
Lisa as a substitute.

However, metaphors can be double-edged swords (Chen, 2012). They emphasize
similarities and may obscure differences. Despite their universal applicability, the
arbitrariness of language persists. In recontextualization, where knowledge is
inherently value-laden, conveying knowledge in a value-neutral manner often proves
challenging (Schön, 1988). All communicative acts are shaped by their creators'
interests and motivations in specific contexts (Bezemer, 2012), and audience
comprehension is further complicated by cultural, social, and historical factors, making
control increasingly difficult. In creating this artifact, I guide the audience toward
developing an understanding similar to my own—a reevaluation of social norms.
During the creation phase, as a social science student, my extensive engagement with
social science literature and feminism heightened my sensitivity to these norms. My
understanding of the white cube as a social norm is built on my accumulated
experiences, including my resentment, reflections, and discussions on societal norms.
High school students who have not majored in social sciences might find it challenging

9

to empathize due to their lack of related experiences in their encyclopedia. Even if all
the items appearing in the artist are there.

Throughout my learning creation phases, recontextualization occurred twice. My
preparation involved a reading list and class notes from my friend Elaine, an art history
major. Through my studies, I realized that deeper discussions involving terms like
institutionalism, public art, museology (Bishop, 2013), and capitalist museum (Krauss,
1990). Although unfamiliar with these concepts, by focusing on social norms, I saw
parallels between social science debates on class, gender binary, racial segregation, and
art discussions. Conversations with Elaine often bridged these fields, assisting my
understanding. When I finished all the readings, I asked Elaine, "The white cube itself
is a Synecdoche, right? It condenses (...) representing a wider debate?" Having chosen
a linguistic module with 'Synecdoche' included in her encyclopedia, Elaine quickly
comprehended and confirmed my understanding.

Nevertheless, I also considered how the differences between Elaine, the model reader
of her literature and lectures, and me, the empirical reader, the difference might affect
my thoughts. Obviously, our art related encyclopedia does not entirely match. Based on
this consideration, the core of the artifact is to expose the complexity of the white cube
discussion, fostering awareness and inquiry rather than delving into professional
justifications. This choice tactfully avoids the potential distortion of knowledge that
could occur if presented too simplistically. Moreover, when explaining the abstract

10

concept of the white cube using language alone, it is challenging for the audience to
grasp the concept intuitively. Guided by multimodality, I employ illustrations, motion
effects, real-world scenes, and audio to recontextualize or, in other words, visualize the
explanations.

Leveraging Language Functions to Communicate

In my presentation, I consistently harness language functions, using various speech
techniques like animations, sound effects, questions, and tonal modulation to align the
speaker and audience emotionally and intellectually, thereby maintaining effective
communication (Dewey, 1916; Jakobson, 1960).

Throughout the presentation, I maintain high enthusiasm. When encouraging the
audience's participation, I emphasize my tone and use the first person to convey
attitudes and emotions (emotive function). For instance, I share a personal anecdote
about an awkward moment at the Tate that helped me relate to those who had similar
experiences. Acknowledging the content's complexity ("I know this is complex…") not
only expresses my respect for the audience's earnest engagement (emotive function) but
also stimulates further participation (phatic function).

Transitional phrases summarizing previous content and introducing new sections, like
"We've explored... now let us...", focus the audience's attention (conative function), help

11

them follow the speech's main thread (Referential Function), and ensure
communication channels remain open (phatic function). Multifunctionality of language
also occurs in phrases designed to resonate with the audience（emotive function）, such
as "I bet most of you have seen…" and rhetorical questions, which ensure the audience's
interest or involvement in upcoming discussions (phatic function), while influencing
their behavior by encouraging them to recall, imagine, or share their perspectives on
the white cube (conative function). More explicit cognitive functions emerge through
the four countdowns and guiding words, maintaining presentation flow. Phrases like
"regard...as..." guide the audience to grasp concepts more deeply through comparisons
between the referent and the metaphor.

Since high school students are not art experts, I simplify standardized technical terms
and definitions to match their knowledge base (referential function), supplemented by
continuous checks(e.g., "Is everyone still with me?") to ensure accurate understanding
(Metalinguistic Function). In fact, the previously mentioned phrase "We've explored…"
also serves this function as it summarizes previous content and allows the audience to
confirm their understanding.

Conclusion

In Dewey's (1916) view of socialization, communication is fundamental. Beyond
acquiring the concept of the white cube, engaging in its discourse, and questioning any

12

socially constructed paradigms, the goal of the artifact is to translate students'
reflections during the presentation into character development and nurture a habit of
critical thinking. This transformative experience prominently enlightens individuals
(Dewey, 1916). For society, it exemplifies how knowledge, culture, and thought
patterns are transmitted across generations, embodying "the greatest of human goods"
(Dewey, 1925). As a presentation mode, different audiences respond differently towards
artworks exhibited in a white cube; as an idea in my video, different audiences reflect
differently towards a white cube. As a knowledge-producing artifact, this video is a
collaborative assembly of humans (myself and the audience) and material elements (all
items in the artifact), each element contributing to a dynamic, unique, and ultimately
unpredictable communicative outcome.

13
