To what extent does the portrayal of female models in heroine films, such as Mulan,
restrict young females from venturing beyond the male gaze?

As a distinct activity with little or no hierarchies associated, media literacy guides us out of
the cage of printed and written word conceptual literacy. Learning to read and write
empowers the general public to interact, criticise, and comprehend society effectively. Film
literacy, as a subset of media literacy, is almost certain to do the same. This essay explores
how film can help to reconstruct the previously confined definition of literacy, automatically
and straightforwardly conferred through uncomplicated ways of spreading knowledge.
Meanwhile, encourage young people worldwide to participate in social events equally and
simultaneously across different digital media. Without the export, I believe young people are
deprived of the right to think and influence progressive change. Each phase of the absorption,
selection, creation, and presentation of a film should include young people, allowing them to
transform private experiences into a public conversation that might lead to a gigantic
collective action of some content and form an interaction with the film. Film's multimodality
can break down male gaze preconceptions by integrating senses, however current research
seems to be lacking in this regard. When it comes to breaking down stereotypes and offering
a platform for social engagement, the film may have the potential of altering the collective
gaze of social groups.

The term "literacy" is generally understood to mean socially recognized ways of
communication that are embedded in social and cultural contexts and are intrinsically linked
to power and authority relationships(Lankshear & Knobel, 2004; Perry, 2012). Contexts here
can be applied to specific situations, actions, and participants(Dourish, 2004). Media literacy
aims to foster broader literacy, cultural experience, aesthetic appreciation, critical
2

understanding and creative production (Burn&Reid, 2012). Promote a more thoughtful and
deliberate process of thinking. Also, empowering everyone to engage with the global media
environment. Since literacy has broadly been defined as the ability to read and write, viewers
who just input information without reflection and output are unable to interact with public
discourse. This appears counter to the advantages of media literacy should bring to society.
Numerous ostensibly feminist films with female heroes as protagonists actually embody and
intensify the male gaze. It is a patriarchal society's cultural product. The term "gaze" refers to
the process through which people are appraised objectively while their subjective aspects are
neglected. The gazing party is vibrant, dominant, and entitled. The gazed party is accordingly
waiting to be evaluated and selected. According to Oliver (2017), the male gaze is a manner
of depicting and perceiving women that empowers men by simultaneously demeaning and
objectifying women. Additionally, the male gaze includes portraying men in films as
"omnipotent" in order to appeal to their narcissism. There seems to be little awareness of how
heroine films embody this.

Through different media, the tale of Mulan, a female soldier who takes her father's place in
the army, has become an international sensation. Mulan fought courageously as a male and
returned home to fulfil her filial responsibilities in line with female morals. Adopting her as a
female role model who is "as excellent as a guy" is actually embracing patriarchal society's
criteria of achievement. From 1939 to 2020, in every Mulan film, elements of a patriarchal
society with murderous overtones and symbols of domination (Eisler, 1988), such as swords
and helmets, have been emphasized invariably. This might reveal the fact that when a woman
attempts to intervene in a social event or action, the only reference model she can choose is a
man. A probable explanation is that the current female cultural pattern, which is immature
and lacks pluralism, still depends on a patriarchal society's appraisal system. Female heroes

3

are therefore still fine-tuned and rewritten inside mature male cultural paradigms. This is a
worldwide phenomenon that does not occur just in films with East Asian women as central
characters. Meyers and Shevenock (2021) estimate that 47% of Marvel fans are female.
Further, Wonder Woman, the 2017 heroine film, outperformed all male-hero films in terms of
box office receipts. The Female Consciousness Awakening seems to have occurred, as
women are increasingly able to observe the world of film through their own lens with
satisfaction (Conaway, 2018). Nevertheless, this satisfaction is derived from a feeling of selfgender identification and pride in seeing the characters valiantly appear in armour, like a man
and better than a man.

Furthermore, Edwards (1994) states that the story uses filial piety and female chastity to
justify Mulan's alleged transgression. In the newest rendition, the emperor's sword award
emphasises filial devotion. Mulan's story has been reinterpreted variously based on social
development(Li, 2018). Media literacy should be dynamic, contingent, and debatable. It is
regrettable that the attention to the family-oriented elements of femininity and the celebration
of conventional feminine characteristics are still patriarchal products. For years, Disney films'
primary target audience has been children aged four to twelve (O'Donnell, 2010). Numerous
parents introduced their daughters to these widely known mainstream heroine films that were
deemed educational. Girls are expected to be as courageous and formidable as the boys,
especially to inherit the desired feminine virtues. Accordingly, the film not only reinforces
patriarchal social values throughout a child's formative years but also denies the young the
chance to crack the male gaze.

Even though implementing media literacy tactics is not easy, media education is a no-brainer
in the educational setting since it mobilizes young people's popular cultural capital. As noted

4

by Mulvey(1975), the experience and the ideology we were raised in will accompany us
when we enter the cinema. In conjunction with literacy’s characteristics of associated with
social and economic advancement(Kelder, 1996), today's global film industry desperately
needs the emergence of instantaneous and contemporary feminist consciousness. This
neoteric consciousness might be able to explain gender in terms of social and economic
power relations (Murray, 2019). More importantly, eradicates the male gaze that has been
embedded in the culture. Consequently, it is essential for young people to have the capacity
to be conscious and curious when confronted with diverse information, as well as the ability
to manipulate linguistic and technological resources while creating (Reia-Baptista et al.,
2014). This entails not merely offering access to information to the young, but also including
them in the dynamic interaction between film and audience and equipping them with sharp
weapons. Literacy is contestable and contingent. Thus, it should be taught with all the
disposal tools for conveying meaning. Young people should be regarded as active consumers,
makers, and curators of films (Potter, 2012), rather than as payers who purchase films for the
pleasure gained in the viewing experience. They might engage in a variety of ways, such as
creating counter-attack clips, composing afterthoughts, or participating in discussions. As a
means of boosting box office income, current heroine films are geared toward satisfying
female audiences' senses of self-identity as either the same as or superior to males. Young
females are unable to consider and improve their social circumstances if they are unable to
interact with the film. They stay trapped by the male gaze.

However, the current study has concentrated only on the interactivity of film, as media
literacy should while ignoring its multimodality nature. The following paragraph will explore
whether sensory combinations are capable of evading the male gaze. The term "gaze" also
refers to the process of interpretation, awareness of being seen, and the link between the

5

spectator and the visual media contact (Lacan, 2019; Loreck, 2016). In line with the concept
of multimodality, cameras guide the audience's perception by combining background
knowledge and visual perception to create a unique interpretation(Bezemer, 2012).
Sophisticated filmmaking blends sensuality with intensity to give the audience a more
nuanced understanding and impression of the characters. In many circumstances, the
audience's interpretation validates their own "act of perception" (Metz, 1982). Films
disseminate social and cultural information and foster reflection (Lord et al., 2007). The
complexity of the relationships between the various meaning or semiotic systems increases
proportionally with the number of modalities involved (Victoria State Government, 2019).
The concept of aesthetic autonomy itself is also considered to reflect a social prejudice and a
means of manifesting certain privileges (Alderson, 1997). The characteristics of women are
largely ignored under the male gaze. In fact, the less aggressive and conquering nature of
femininity, and the more compassionate and caring nature of others, should also be treasured
gender traits. Mulan can be a female idol, but not the only model for females. Sensitive and
tender women with kindness and benevolence also are.

Li(2018) holds the view that the 2009 version of the film has made some progress. For
example, both the soft and pleasant Voiceover and styling contributed to the sensory effect' of
Mulan's femininity. Similarly, the filmmaker aimed to portray Mulan’s life-affirming pursuit
of love through lines and music as she struggles with an emotional freak-out and hardships.
This ingrained mindset is very difficult to change in a short time. Knowledge and literacy
practice is seen as collaboratively generated by distinct social groups rather than as the result
of individual perceptions (Mills, 2010). The most crucial aspect of artistic expression is that it
takes place in an autonomous aesthetic realm (Alderson, 1997). The film and its possession of
multimodality empower the audience with this step of understanding, enabling the autonomy

6

of comprehension and expression. However, there should be more awareness that Mulan's
war-related depression, doubts and struggles, as well as her complicated emotions towards
love, are also an instrumental part of her growth(Harris, 2011). Literary in any form is a
dynamic media of deliberate communication in a variety of social and cultural contexts.
According to Burn and Reidfilm(2012), film as an art form in which new genres and styles
are constantly emerging may bear some responsibility. When it comes to disseminating new
ideas, the film is the ideal media that blurs the line between "high art" and "popular culture"
(Alderson, 1997). It is probably the most effective media for instilling an appreciation for
women's capabilities and fortitude. Especially for women themselves.

7
