All photos courtesy of my mum. With her permission and with love.

AT 28,
AT THE CROSSROADS

The year Mum got her
undergraduate degree

Grandmum, mum and I
At the age of 28, my mum reached her
career milestone by moving up from a
junior director to a producer. During the
final rehearsal of the first programme she
independently led, she rushed from the
shoot to the hospital and gave birth to
me. Two of the most pivotal moments
happened simultaneously: as her career
accelerated, she became a mother.
Throughout my upbringing, she has been
my rock and confidante. Mum penned
nearly hundreds of letters to me, each
radiating the contentment of motherhood.
She also has a close-knit connection with
my dad, filled with love, friendship,
admiration, and appreciation. For Mum,
family life is intricately intertwined with
being a self-empowered woman.

The year I was born

The year Mum got her first
postgraduate degree in France

The year Mum got married

As
Bird-Pollan
(2020)
clarifies,
individuals
could
have
different
attachment levels to socially identified
identity concepts, and intersectionality
expresses this flexible logic of identity.
Mum was born into an enlightened family
with abundant opportunities in preestablished-class China. Despite the
upheavals of the Cultural Revolution, her
parents pursued higher education and
became
teachers.
This
fortunate
background allowed her to make choices
that deviated from social norms. Her
experiences exemplify how identities are
reciprocally constructed, forming an
interdependent system (Collins 2015).
Her fortune in navigating constraints
echoed Sylvia Wynter's caution to break
free from white bourgeois masculinity
and any specific standard of "proper
person" (Mignolo 2015, 106–23).

Surprisingly, I found evidence supporting
both the additive and constitutive models
of intersectionality in Mum's journey. The
additive model highlights that inequalities
don't
permanently
interlock
(Christoffersen and Emejulu 2022). Thus,
while gender is a core disadvantaged
identity, adhering to the idea of grading
identity differences, her other privileges
seem
to
overshadow
gender
disadvantage (Choo and Ferree 2010).
For instance, living her entire life in
Shanghai, a city epitomising China's
economic boom (Lyons 1997), provided
Mum with extensive opportunities during
a social class fluctuation (Bian 2002;
Davis 1995). My grandparents supported
Mum's privileged higher education, a
rarity for many women at the time (Attané
2012). She was recommended for
admission to one of the top universities,
which garnered her more recognition and
opportunities in her career.

In her childhood

The year Mum got her second
postgraduate degree in London

After graduating from the specialised
teacher-training university, Mum rejected
a school offer, sacrificing the stability of
this job and its edge in the marriage
market. Instead, to join a state
broadcaster, she paid a hefty fine
following
the
government's
talent
cultivation policy, which aims to motivate
students specialising as high school
teachers by providing scholarships and
career security. For national security,
state-owned broadcasters in late 20thcentury China enjoyed monopolies and
privileged treatment (Lin, Cai and Li
2003; Wang 2022). Although this is
widely acknowledged, not every graduate
had the chance to pursue a profession
with elevated occupational status due to
heavy fines and uncertainty.

Examining the constitutive model of intersectionality, it is
because Mum's female identity didn't impede her growth, nor
did other identities. According to her, childbirth never hindered
her opportunities. Appreciation from female leaders helped her
accumulate valuable experience, fortifying her against
childbirth-related workplace challenges. Her specialised career
in children's channels even flourished thanks to motherhood.
Producing shows aligned with the age group I was growing up
in, she actively understands her target audience. Her main
criterion in show creation is whether she would feel
comfortable if I watched them alone. This mindset contributes
to her shows being outstanding.

Although this is widely acknowledged, not
every graduate had the chance to pursue
a profession with elevated occupational
status due to heavy fines and uncertainty.
Mum was brave and abandoned sunk
costs with family support and financial
viability.

She was wearing this ugly hat all the
time because the abortion

As the mum of a girl, she aimed to raise me as a resilient
woman, motivating herself to read feminist materials extensively.
Mum didn't explicitly experience the global women's rights
movement during her growth. But she immersed herself in the
waves of feminism in my upbringing. She recalls a profound
awakening when I expressed a desire to pursue graduate
studies in America for three years and venture into architectural
design. Initially, she was concerned about how this might affect
my marriage prospects and hesitant about a "girl like me"
enduring the rigours of architecture. Through our arguments,
she realised, "I'm raising my daughter, not cultivating a wife."

We are used to convey our affection through writing. Mum writes on red envolps on Chinese New Year
I view Mum's journey as an ongoing combat with gender
disadvantages by leveraging other advantages. My frequent
illnesses led her to blame herself for miscarriages during
working pregnancy and deviating from traditional breastfeeding
practices due to her eagerness to return to work. Her emotional
burden reflects the influence of Confucian ideals and
conventional beliefs about pregnancy restrictions (Lau 2012).
However, growing up in an environment without assuming
women share uniform identities, interests, and goals minimises
regulation and reification (Butler 1990). Her absence from
caregiving fueled her guilt. Seeking the best educational
resources for me is her compensation. She is allowed to play
the role of a mum on her own terms. When Mum got the
opportunity to pursue her first graduate degree in France, she
was unexpectedly pregnant. Again, she resolutely chose
abortion to prioritise self-realisation. In fact, Mum's constant
discomfort with societal expectations validates the tension
between multiple identity relations, as Crenshaw and Collins
noted in their 1980s definition of intersectionality (Bird-Pollan
2020).

We're always travelling on Mum's holidays