Introduction

In the context of capital theory, the correlation between the arts and socioeconomic status (SES) is a
virtuous circle for the upper classes and a pernicious circle for the lower classes. Numerous studies
have investigated how art education influences people’s SES, but relatively few studies have
examined how SES itself influences the chance of a child being exposed to the arts. As a means of
filling the research gap in this area, this research will test the hypothesis that people's socioeconomic
status influences their arts engagement. If the correlation coefficient falls within the designated range
and satisfies the significance level, one-way regression analysis can be used to elucidate and
anticipate the impact of SES on arts engagement. This provides valuable insight on the outcomes of
the City Beautiful movement (Olsen, 1998). In addition, it can increase awareness and promote art
education.

Literature Review

Reid (1926) argues that the wide variety of art forms makes the definition of arts engagement highly
ambiguous and variable, which empowers us to inspect it more subjectively. Despite asking specific
questions about participation in 28 artistic activities, Wang et al. (2020) still acknowledged the
challenge of ensuring the inclusion of all artistic activities. In his discussion of artistic experiences,
Wziak-Biaowolska (2016) seeks to differentiate between active participation in the arts (playing
instruments, dancing, painting, etc.) and passive participation (watching films, theater, exhibitions,
etc.). Nonetheless, when analyzing the results, he continues to refer to them collectively as voluntary
cultural activity. This indicates that there is no discernible distinction between the two, at least in

2

terms of outcomes. According to Novak-Leonard et al. (2015), the discourse surrounding arts
engagement is inclined towards Western artistic practices and disregards the broader meaning of the
term in ethnic minority and migrant communities (Brown & Cousins, 2001). In this instance, when
the phrase "arts engagement" is employed holistically without a comprehensive delineation of the
particular activities encompassed, the freedom to interpret the phrase may be ceded to the participants.

The UK has abundant artistic resources; nevertheless, how it reproduces socioeconomic inequality
exemplifies the significance of cultural capital. According to statistics given by the Museum
Association and Theatres Trust, there are approximately 2,500 museums and 1,100 active theaters in
the country. However, it is more essential to note that the top five most-visited attractions that year
were all located in London (Association of Leading Visitor Attractions, 2019). The England Arts
Council has cited geographical inequality in arts funding as a contributing factor (Mak et al., 2020b).
Inequalities are not solely based on geography. Since art has always been an exclusive concept, only a
select few have the authority to define it (Grenfell & Hardy, 2007). Discourse on art implies a value, a
specific flavor, or a standard (Silva, 2008). Disparities in people's access to artistic resources can be
discussed within the theoretical framework of cultural capital. There is a correlation between
accumulated cultural knowledge and social status and power (Bourdieu & Passeron, 1977). The key to
understanding the significance of cultural capital in practice is to recognize how it is intertwined with
privileged life, enabling the emergence of privileged habits and dispositions in packs that cannot be
taught individually to other classes (Ostrower, 1998; Reay, 2017). Consistent with Frow and
Emmison's (1998) expansion of cultural capital in their discourse on information technology, arts
engagement serves as a means of expression and self-presentation, conferring benefits upon
individuals who possess expertise and familiarity with the arts. The upper classes have exclusive
knowledge that is not available to the lower classes. Meanwhile, this knowledge facilitates the
integration of privileged groups into society.

3

According to earlier studies (Devine & Dowds, 2013; McManus & Furnham, 2006), exposure to
artistic resources positively correlates with socioeconomic status, and arts engagement is
geographically and socially context-dependent (Mak et al., 2020b). There is a social gradient of
interest in artistic activities, as indicated by mixed evidence (Bone et al., 2021). When proposing the
concept of capitals, Bourdieu and Passeron (1977) placed special emphasis on the inheritance passed
down from one generation to the next. Parents should invest in their children's cultural capital by
exposing them to the arts (Kapitzke, 2000). Frow and Emmison (1998) found that families with
satisfactory financial situations are more likely to involve their children in artistic activities. Lynch
and Kaplan (2000) describe socioeconomic status (SES) as a conceptualization of social and
economic stratification. Research suggests that people with greater educational attainment and better
employment prospects are more likely to participate in artistic activities than those with lower
socioeconomic status (Parkinson et al., 2014; Mak et al., 2020a). Traditional measures of SES in
health-related reporting include income, education, and occupation (Adler & Ostrove, 1999).
Following Quon and McGrath's (2015) notion of relative SES and emphasis on the significance of
evaluating multiple dimensions, the present research introduces subjective SES and the geographical
context dimension. Individuals' subjective socioeconomic status (SES) is based on their perception of
their position in society, which can be influenced by their comparison to others in their community
(Singh-Manoux et al., 2003).

Methodology

Following is the overarching logic of this research. First of all, a correlation between two variables,
SES and the proportion of their expenditure spent on arts engagement, should be confirmed. A
hypothesis is formulated to establish a functional relationship between the independent and dependent
variables. As part of the modeling process, a regression analysis will be conducted to assess the

4

hypothesis. The correlation coefficient between the two variables is calculated using SPSS. The
correlation will only be considered valid if the absolute value of the coefficient is greater than 0.5 and
the significance level is less than 0.05. Mak et al. (2020a) recommend a 95% confidence interval for
the coefficient to account for interplay between household members and prevent underestimation of
the standard error that arises from evaluating SES and arts engagement within the context of the
household. Assuming the presence of correlations, one-way regression analysis will be employed to
furnish additional comprehensive insights, including forecasting changes in the dependent variable.

Data will be collected through a questionnaire. I will conduct a pilot test and modify the options on
the questionnaire based on the results. The population of this research is comprised of non-art
undergraduates at UCL who have spent most of their formative years in Europe. The study limits the
population to non-arts students in order to regulate their exposure to the arts in everyday learning.
Undergraduates are selected for the purpose of controlling for their educational attainment and age.
Additionally, the study focuses specifically on UCL to mitigate the influence of school resources on
the population. The sampling methodology is stratified sampling based on majors. Moreover, in
asking questions like monthly expenditures,a specific month like "March 2023" would be clarified.
Although there is a wealth of resources for the arts in London all year round, there are also exhibition
cycles when galleries update their displays or highly concentrated seasons for performances, so the
survey period needs to be longer than a month to ensure consistency.

The independent variable of the study is the socioeconomic status of the student's family, and the
dependent variable is the proportion of arts participation expenditures. Due to the fact that correlation
analysis can only be performed on continuous data, the results will be presented as continuous data,
which is better suited for statistical testing and modeling purposes. The options for the questions are
in ordinal form, however, to ease collection and more accurately reflect the circumstances of

5

participants. In order to simplify the weighting computation, the data discretization approach is
frequently utilized. For instance, convert proportion data into categorical ranks. To explore the
relationship between the dependent variable and several independent variables, we will measure the
independent variables in five dimensions: income level, education (attainment and grade point
average), occupation (category and level), subjective judgment, and the ranking of the city in the
Cultural and Creative Cities Monitor (European Cultural Foundation, 2020). We will employ an
equal-weighted summation method to derive a continuous value that represents the collective impact
of the independent variables. Specifically, calculate the mean value for each dimension, which will
serve as the central value. Weights will be assigned to the central values to account for their relative
importance in the model. We will assign 10% weight to each of the two values of educational
attainment and occupation and 20% weight to income, subjective SES, and the city lived in during
formative years. Finally, we will calculate the weighted central values to obtain a continuous dataset
that will be used for correlation coefficient and regression analyses. This process will ensure the
validity and reliability of the findings.

The relative income index will be calculated by dividing the family's income from the previous year
by the national average family income for that year. After that, a scale may be used to convert the
continuous variables into ordinal data by having the participants place their calculated results into
predetermined categories. For instance, Option A, which ranges from 0% to 25%, would be selected if
the calculated value was 18%. The scale is generated according to a pilot, designating each equal
portion an ordinal number. The measurement of educational attainment is based on the primary
caregiver with whom the participant spent the most time before university. Besieds, the grade point
average attained at the time of acquiring the aforementioned qualification would be obtained and
converted to ordinal data. The occupation of that family member will also be evaluated on two
dimensions: the nature and level of the occupation. Both dimensions will be determined using the
International Standard Classification of Occupations, which categorizes occupations according to their

6

level of complexity and level of specialization. Participants will be asked to provide an occupation
category and level. Based on the work of Quon and McGrath (2015), we will pose the question, "Do
you think your family's SES is better or worse than that of your classmates?" Options, each
corresponding to one ordinal data point, will be provided to participants. Besides, inquire about the
artistic richness of a growing city as a variable control. Participants will be asked to identify cities that
meet certain conditions in the city question. According to the comprehensive ranking in the European
Cultural Foundation's Cultural and Creative Cities Monitor (2020), an ordinal figure will be derived.

The study's dependent variable is the proportion of monthly expenditure on arts engagement, obtained
by dividing monthly art engagement expenditures by total monthly expenditures and multiplying by
100%. Both interpretation and design problems are complicated by the term arts engagement's
flexibility and subjectivity (Novak-Leonard et al., 2015). Thus, participants will be given a list of
examples of arts engagement in the form of phrases like "Arts engagement includes but is not limited
to..."; however, arts engagement will be viewed as a subjectively interpreted term as a whole.

The most necessary of all ethical safeguards is to ensure that participants are comfortable identifying
their SES, which is highly personal and sensitive. It is essential to protect the respondents'
information, for example by anonymizing and encrypting it, and to ensure that no hidden damage
occurs throughout the survey. Respondents' informed consent should be secured by both the content
of the survey and its intended application. Furthermore, discussion should avoid personal bias to
maintain the credibility and reliability of the results. In addition, the methodology, data collection, and
analysis process should be made public in order to promote transparency and guarantee that the results
are used appropriately.

7

Conclusion

However, it is important to acknowledge that there may be recall bias in the data collection process,
as the survey questionnaire relies on self-reporting. In some cases, the participants must subjectively
understand and decide which family member to report on. Additionally, the situation of one particular
family member may not fully represent the situation of the entire family, such as when a mother with
no regular income spends the most time with her child but the grandparents own a profitable
company. In terms of data analysis, conversions between continuous and ordinal data can result in
data loss and reduce the flexibility of analysis. Due to the many limiting conditions imposed during
sampling, it is challenging to generalize the research findings to a larger population. Our research is
expected to have a number of notable strengths, providing new insights from two perspectives. Firstly,
it can serve as a means for directing and improving the redistribution of artistic resources. Secondly, it
aims to investigate the practical application of capital theory. The enduring system of dispositions that
is acquired through participating in artistic activities is referred to as "habitus" (Bourdieu, 1987;
Navarro, 2006). In the context of the accelerating segregation caused by constantly evolving
information technology (Choi et al., 2020), art has become even more exclusive. Therefore, previous
results may be outdated and require updating research progress. Moving forward, research in this area
should focus on the mutual influence among multiple independent variables or the mutual influence
between independent variables and dependent variables. A collective environment composed of
people carrying the same social capital makes society increasingly segregated. Expanding the
discussion of Bourdieu's (1986) concept of capital reveals that the relationships between variables
exceed one-way regression analysis. Bidirectional regression analysis is a promising area for further
study.

8
