Reflections on the contradictory predicament of the school uniform
skirt as an educational tool in the sociocultural settings of Korea

Introduction

South Korea is ranked sixth globally in terms of cultural effect in 2021 (Adams, 2022), and
its flourishing entertainment industry garners considerable attention in its social milieu. The
characteristics of Korean society, in conjunction with the ambiguous identity-seeking
predicament of women, illustrate the circular relationship between society and education.
Kim (2011) claims in K-pop research that Korean females' sexuality is currently constructed
on the basis of their contradicting images. Even if Western feminism inspires them, Korean
girls are not able to escape the clutches of the traditional, male-centered view of what it
means to be a woman (Sedgwick, 1990). School uniforms act as a disciplinary tool regulating
children's bodily hygiene, dictating how the body should be displayed at school (Kannan,
2022). Considering the extent to which this norm is a result of social construction,
Hobsbawm (1992) labels it an "invented tradition." In other words, the original intent of
school uniforms as a tool for education might be misinterpreted and distorted within a social
culture, thus deviating from their true purpose. In this sense, the connotations carried by the
school uniform skirt in terms of both habitus and identity formation remain malleable as a
substantive medium (Allan, 2009), despite the fact that it is stylized and ingrained in the
image of the girl (Ringrose & Rawlings, 2015). On the premise that the ideal of what
constitutes beauty for women is sociohistorical, emerging, and evolving through the shared
performance of social practises (Entwistle, 2002), it cannot be denied that the school uniform

skirt has the potential to positively influence both individuals and society. Similar to the
recurring causes and consequences in the chicken-and-egg conundrum, this reveals the
dynamic relationship between society and education. Due to the impossibility of simply
adopting overseas practises as habitus and the incompatibility of the social environment and
educational system under the heavily homogenised nature of Korean culture, this essay
argues that long-term education should be required to alter the social habitus and improve the
effectiveness of school uniforms.

The contradiction between western and indigenous cultures

Marshall (2022) is a journalist who claims that South Korea's national culture was originally
established through cultural appropriation. As his article's title, "South Korea is stealing from
the West," suggests, K-dramas and K-pop have become cultural hybrids by adopting Western
trends and practises (Sung, 2014; Sun et al., 2022). Clothing is the most straightforward way
of expressing oneself. Various items can be utilised to distinguish honorific categories and
facilitate calibration, as is customary in many public school uniform codes (Wilkinson,
1964). For instance, the blazer's stripes, the shirt's various colors, and the brooch This
practise may have evolved into what Bourdieu (1977) terms a "dynamic habitus" in the west.
Habitus, in Bourdieu's definition, is a habitual behavior. This set of enduring and acquired
behaviours is in fact a result of social deposition, which enables actors to act in specific ways
on a whim and without much conscious thought (Bourdieu, 1987, 1990; Navarro, 2006). The
world has been shaped by a fluid and constantly recast set of dispositions based on the timehonored history and social transformations of the West (Frank & Bourdieu, 1980). The rise in

popularity of the short skirt in the West can be traced back to the emergence of concepts such
as feminism and assertive female figures, as well as the occurrence of a variety of stiff
resistance associated with them. This is the reason why young people in the West have the
propensity to express their identity, values, and inventiveness through clothing, such as skirts.
When the Sookmyung Women's School brought the modern Western school skirt to Korea
for the first time in 1907 (Park, 2013), it had a positive effect, whether it was to meet
international standards or to change the uniform look. Regardless of whether the popularity of
the short skirt is seen as a consequence or a process of struggle, it is evident that the
significance of the short skirt in Korea, as long as women are momentarily unable to escape
the grip of patriarchal values, is unidimensional (Campbell, 2015). Instead of the culture
itself—in this example, the feminist movement—young people are imitating the intriguing
exterior of western society. Indeed, it is impossible for Koreans to bypass the process of
intellectual enlightenment and merely draw on their achievements. The embedded cultures
would impede the arrival of alien civilizations. The Confucian cultural concept evoked in
Korea views the female body as the state's womb, which needs to be governed (Seoul Street
Fashion Week, 2016). By objectifying women, they are logically obligated to perform
domestic chores and participate in physical reproduction. Historically, the exploitation of
female labour has benefited the Korean economy, for instance, by significantly contributing
to industrialization during colonialism (1910–1945) and the economic boom from 1961–1996
(Fedorenko, 2014). The ensuing issue was that career opportunities for Korean women had
previously been limited and inexpensive. According to Appiah (2018), education, which
contributes to the formation of habitus, along with status in the production system, which
reflects power relationships and social position, collectively determine life chances. The
result of this vicious circle is that even in the face of legislative restrictions, consumer culture
and the sex industry still identify young girls' sexuality as a "sexual commodity" (Kim, 2003).

When western habitus was introduced as a unilateral habit in Korea, where
internationalisation became the attribution of over-sexualized behavior, it diverged from its
original meaning (Sun et al., 2022). However, this seems to be a valid phenomenon, since the
"new gender regime" defines girls as the intersection of characteristics that were formerly
considered antithetical to each other (McRobbie, 2009).

Furthermore, Korean feminists have discovered that using femininity and sex appeal to toy
with patriarchy is becoming increasingly popular as girls' sexuality becomes a negotiable
asset (Kim, 2003; Tasker & Negra, 2007). As the heteronormative market today dominates
Korea's aesthetic regime (Allan, 2009), females make use of their uniforms and the
femininity they portray, such as by simply shortening their skirt lengths, to advance in
society. Adults who are accustomed to traditional patriarchal gender norms continue to see
women as meek, subservient, and inconspicuous (Kim, 2003; Lee, 2013). They apparently
lack sufficient habitus to carry out Western practices; therefore, they begin to exclude and
prohibit. The Gangwon Provincial Office of Education, for instance, spent over 820 million
KRW in 2011 to instal fenders in front of approximately 5,500 tables to shield the legs of
students wearing short skirts (Hankyung News, 2011). This might demonstrate that for many
Koreans, wearing a short skirt is inextricably linked to a lack of self-esteem (Ringrose &
Rawlings, 2015). Hence, although wearing short skirts or keeping them short is intended to
resist the male gaze and the various societal exploitations and systemic restrictions on girls'
bodies (Brooks, 2002), it is still considered slut-shaming in contemporary Korean society,
along with unusual makeup and trendy hairstyles (Ringrose & Renold, 2012).

Meanwhile, it is impossible to deny that Koreans have a proclivity to recognise themselves in
the perceptions of others (Kim, Do-hyoung 2011).Historiographically, Korean nationalism is
centred on the ethnic and cultural homogeneity of all Koreans (Schmid, 1997). They are more
inclined to identify themselves through their interactions with others than through their own
accomplishments (Campbell, 2015). The standardisation of school uniforms serves as an
additional catalyst for this convergence. Up until the 1980s, the legislation required that
Korean schools wear almost identical uniforms. Regardless of the fact that the legislation is
no longer in effect, Koreans nevertheless have the inclination to minimise their own
prominence. The fact that both rule-makers and rule-bearers adhere to the traditional
Confucian collectivist mindset explains why school uniforms remain highly popular.

The contradiction between institutional rule guidance and socio-cultural influence

This tension exists not only between foreign and indigenous cultures but also within Korea
between educational regulations and societal norms. Also, it seems to have paved the way for
a lot of extreme behavior, like the trend of getting skirts shorter and shorter or selling school
uniform skirts to people with certain fetishes.

The fundamental reason for the emergence of the school uniform rule, from the school's
perspective, is that it does have massive benefits. This includes, but is not limited to,
promoting equitable competition, managing violent behavior, and allowing students to
concentrate more on academic pursuits for a more motivated school climate (Stanley, 1996;

Anderson, 2002; Jones et al., 2020). It is critical to acknowledge the role of school uniforms
in de-sexualizing children and preventing disruptive learning at its source, while also taking
into account the contradictory situation that females, in particular, find themselves in.
Without a doubt, schools are pivotal for advancing social civilization (Newman, 1977). The
foundation of the school's conventional moral habitus, as defined by Bernstein et al. (1966),
also includes decorum and modesty in opposition to sexuality and the flesh. Ostentation and
erotic emphasis are seen as impure and irreligious expressions (Symes & Meadmore, 1996).
Uniforms are also seen as a method to combat anxiety over nudity since they may be used to
smooth out the body, deny body counters, neuter sexual identity, and counter libidinous
attraction (Young, 1993). This explains why even in the West, like Wales, even if each
school has varied skirt length requirements, there is at least a mention of the school uniform
being appropriate (Wightwick, 2021). Furthermore, since they limit women's mobility, school
uniforms could be an influential form of de-animation. To transcend beasts and creatures,
individuals must develop free will and rationality through education (Symes & Meadmore,
1996). Girls who wear skirts appear more "feminine" because doing so requires them to act in
a more "feminine" way, such as keeping their legs together or stepping more delicately, rather
than because of the skirt's appearance per se (Park, 2013). According to Symes and
Meadmore (1996), the wearing of school uniforms seems to negate any temptation that may
impede study.

As Kannan (2022) observes in her survey, many girls have disregarded the presence of
clothing that restricts their mobility, considering it a specific inconvenience that females must
endure. Despite the fact that they are only expected to follow the rules in school, girls believe
that short skirts are explicit, sexually-oriented, and carnal flaunting. Even after joining

society, they continue to follow these rules out of habitus. In this regard, it appears reasonable
to presume that social norms match educational requirements, yet in practice, the social
reality is too complex to generalize. K-pop studies claim that the bodies of girls in idol
groups are sculpted and shown under the manipulation of entertainment companies and are
objectified commercially. Their visual images are designed to be mature and seductive,
whereas the youngsters exude youthful charm and allure in every gesture (Kim, 2011). This
inconsistency does not only occur in K-pop groups. In fact, as part of the punishment and
reward routines defined by Foucault et al. (1991), school uniforms have developed into both a
code of behaviour for girls to follow throughout their lives and a mechanism for selfregulation. However, in Korean communities where females are still defined by malecentered norms and values (Kim, 2003), the fetishisation of the skirt gives it a more
pornification or sexualization meaning (Walkerdine, 1990). According to Joshua et al.
(2020), who discuss the dearth of female representation in police museums, the most
prevalent evidence of the existence of female police officers in such a public space is
mannequins dressed in women's uniforms. The only value they seem to have is merely as
skirts; there are no writings that describe the tale or give it significance. This demonstrates a
fascination with policewomen's uniforms (Joshua et al., 2020). Because socialisation and
academics are inextricably linked, the sexualization reflected by the skirt is introduced not
only in the public sphere but also on campus.

Korean society expects girls to be "attractive," and this self-monitoring of appearance as
cultural capital is internalised by girls (Frost, 2005). Middle and high school students in
Korea spend the majority of their time at school and increasingly wear their uniforms outside
of school, making them an integral component of their wardrobes (Lee & Lim, 2010). It

seems absurd, but many young women go out dating while still dressed in their school
uniforms. Owing to societal homogenization and a general lack of inventiveness (Kim, 2011),
it is a typical practise for Korean girls to continue wearing short skirts but to make them
shorter or roll them up in order to stick to society's expectations of being "attractive" (Park,
2013). The pervasive uniform culture has largely deprived students of individuality and the
capacity to generate distinctive, unexpected, and meaningful thoughts (Boden, 2004; Park,
2013). Notwithstanding the fact that the new generations aspire to express their individuality
through their appearance (Kim, 2003), they are held back by their paralysing worry that doing
anything out of line will damage their reputation and cause them to be shunned by their peers
and the consumer society at large.

Possible ways of coping in contradictory situations

As Miuccia Prada, the founder of the renowned luxury brand Prada, stated in an interview,
"What you wear is how you present yourself to the world" (Galloni, 2007), appearance
commonly functions as a vehicle of societal ideals conveying each individual's moral
standing (Veblen, 1970). Clothing, in particular, is often used to change the way people look.
However, Symes and Meadmore (1996) say that what happened in reverse is more important
because people can give their clothes meaning. Here are two hypotheses that might contribute
to the rectification of school uniforms as a beneficial tool. First off, by integrating other
identities in order to counterbalance the injustice of female identity, one may make use of the
identity messages that accompany school uniforms, such as being middle class. Second,
through long-term education, feminist consciousness becomes an integrated set of beliefs,

called "habitus," so that new ways of doing things don't change because people aren't willing
to accept them.

One prerequisite for achieving rectification is that girls recognise that the vulnerabilities they
experience as women are not inherent in nature but rather produced by society (Beauvoir,
2015). To put it another way, choices made by an individual could influence their identity
since it is not curved in stone (Appiah, 2018). According to Appiah's (2018) conceptual
features of the identity formation process, identity is also crucial to the formation of habitus
since it directs individuals to contemplate how they should behave under a label. The three
basic qualities of labels are that they impose specific rules on individuals that they have to
abide by, that they unconsciously mould the holder's feelings and behaviors, and that they
influence how the holder is regarded. In conjunction with Kimberlé Crenshaw's (1991) notion
of intersectionality, the meaning of identity for each holder is coloured by their other
identities. If one were in the woman's shoes, the disempowerment of being a woman may be
combined with an upper-class identification to create a new, likely authorized, identity. It
appears that females may climb the social ladder and reverse their plight by utilising school
uniforms or making use of their femininity in a society where hierarchy is rigid, social
structure is entrenched, and patriarchy has not been eradicated. In addition, girls must
recognise that it is always the stigmatisation of femininity, not femininity itself, that needs to
be rejected. In public schools with a high percentage of students from middle-class
households, the dress code is more stringent since the school uniform is seen as a tool to
position oneself and acquire social capital (Bernstein, 1975). Among the many desiderata of
middle-class women is the desire to dress appropriately at all times. They also employ this
image to consolidate their social status through exclusionary and regulatory strategies

(Langland, 1995; Poovey, 2001) and to prove their "respectability" by portraying their female
figure (Creese & Skeggs, 1998). For example, in Britain, the apparatus of being ladylike as
appropriate attire allows girls to derive certain authority from their identity and differentiate
themselves from the "vulgar" working-class masses (Allan, 2009).

On top of that, it cannot be disputed that long-term education may continually strive to
improve the social atmosphere, even though the school uniform skirt as an educational tool
appears to be slightly astray in contemporary Korean society under the impact of other
dilemmas. When projected onto Korean society, the wearer is shown to be enslaved by the
regulations by being subjugated by both the tangible script of school uniform norms and the
intangible social convention. In this case, if we further restrict our focus to females, rather
than a clash of viewpoints, the convergence of society makes it more perilous and taxing to
implement change. In such a situation, people are compelled to pursue immutable and
conforming worth. If we narrow our attention even more to women, besides the clash of
viewpoints, the convergence of society will make it more perilous and taxing to implement
change. With the assistance of long-term education, schools should continue to guide students
to appreciate the profound message behind the school uniform skirt and experience the
positive value of its proper use, thereby enabling the position of women in Korea to be
genuinely elevated. To maximise long-term benefits, it is necessary to abandon imitating the
superficial and instead devote more time and expense to penetrating or replicating the
underlying ideas behind phenomena, including demonstrations or strikes.

Conclusion

This essay identifies how young Korean women are experimenting with the compromise
between sticking to convention and expressing uniqueness by cutting their uniforms
exceedingly short. In view of the heavy homogeneity of Korean society, adopting new
practises becomes more challenging and more likely to have unintended consequences.
Subsequently, two possible approaches are proposed to revive the benign implications of
school uniforms. Being a Chinese girl who also resides in East Asia, it is inevitable for me to
bring cultural bias to my study due to the marginally shared but impossibly equal interaction
between the cultures of the East Asian nations. Besides, as globalisation and internet
technology continue to advance, young Koreans have an expanding variety of options to
obtain insight and cultural experience in Western societies. The International Trade
Administration reports that, notwithstanding the burden of COVID-19, a total of 39,491
Korean students were enrolled in American institutions during the academic year 2020-2021.
These students' firsthand exposure to Western culture not only benefits themselves but also
gives Korea a unique and commendable window into the West's society. Girl's Crush as a
fashion movement in Korea's burgeoning cultural sector captures the spirit of independent,
strong women that permeates K-pop. It's a symbol of the millennial generation's rejection of
conventional gender roles and pursuit of individual fulfillment (Kendall, 2002; Yang, 2020).
Additionally, the success in cultural exports appears to herald that Korea has gradually
advanced towards a new stage of acceptance and progress with the West as the movie
Parasite won the 92nd Academy Awards for Best Picture and other awards, the TV series
Squid Game became the most popular series of all time on the Western mainstream media
Netflix (Keck, 2021), and the exhibition titled "Korean Wave" was placed in the V&A in
London. Considering the recent changes in Korean society and the sensitivity of the culture,

this essay, although as up-to-date as is feasible, cannot ensure that its discussion is entirely
pertinent to the current circumstances.
